In the last six decades , Korea has achieved unparalleled economic growth . 
Korea was one of the poorest countries in the world in 1948 when the government was first established . 
Now Korea has grown into a global economic player with a solid industrial base . 
In the meantime , democracy and pluralism have taken firm root in Korean society . 
It is no exaggeration to say that Korea is one of only a handful of countries that have combined economic success with democratic transition in the post-World War II era . 
The transformation of the Korean economy can be summarized in two words － industrialization and globalization . 
The share of the industrial sector -LRB- manufacturing , construction and public utilities -RRB- in total value-added more than doubled from 17 percent in the 1950s to 38 percent in the 1980s , and has fluctuated around this level ever since . 
The service sector has also increased The service sector share from 41 percent in the 1950s to 60 percent in the 2000s . 
By contrast , the primary sector has experienced a precipitous fall in the primary sector share from 42 percent to 3 percent in the same period . 
Along with rapid industrialization , integration into the global economy accelerated , as indicated by total trading volume , which rose from about 10 percent of GDP in the 1950s to 80-90 percent in recent years . 
Cross-border capital flows also increased rapidly in this period . 
The industrialization of the Korean economy has been greatly affected by the globalization trend . 
International trade offered a vast global market for Korean producers . 
International trade also enabled Korean producers to import intermediate goods and advanced technologies needed for the production of export goods . 
At the beginning , the international division of labor prompted the growth of labor-intensive industries in which Korea had a comparative advantage . 
These industries absorbed surplus labor from rural areas and contributed to an increase in per capita income and savings rates . 
Later , as capital accumulation progressed , the comparative advantage shifted from labor-intensive to capital-intensive industries , and the latter began to dominate industrial production and exports . 
Per capita income continued to grow rapidly as productivity improved . 
In the process of industrialization and globalization , the policy stance of the government underwent a few significant changes . 
In the aftermath of the Korean War , the government focused on meeting the immediate consumption needs of the population . 
It was only in the 1960s that a systematic effort to jump-start the economy was initiated . 
The government actively promoted exports with pecuniary and other incentives given to exporters . 
Initially , these incentives were non-discriminatory in the sense that all exporters with a good export performance were entitled to all exporters with a good export performance regardless of all exporters with a good export performance business sector . 
In the 1970s , however , as the government came to concentrate the government efforts on promoting heavy and chemical industries -LRB- HCIs -RRB- , government intervention in the market became more selective and discriminatory . 
The government also strengthened the government control of the financial market to direct resource allocation in favor of the HCIs . 
The government-led growth strategy , as exemplified by the HCI drive , produced many problems , including a serious misallocation of resources , chronic inflation , and greater income inequality . 
In the early 1980s , the government made a radical departure from the past by emphasizing price stability over economic growth . 
the government also encouraged private initiatives and began to liberalize the market . 
More attention was given to social policies , with a corresponding increase in public spending on health , welfare and education . 
Throughout the government economic history , Korea has had Korea fair share of failures as well as successes . 
Financial repression since the 1960s held back the financial sector from developing into a fully competitive service industry . 
A number of large business conglomerates , namely the chaebol , increased A number of large business conglomerates , namely the chaebol , influence on the back of government support , and the concentration of economic power emerged as an important economic and social issue . 
In addition , Korea failed to establish sound worker-management relations until disruptive labor movements appeared in the mid-1980s . 
Most importantly , the repeated interventions by the government to salvage troubled firms from bankruptcy strengthened the so-called `` too-big-to-fail '' principle . 
Combined with very low interest rates maintained since the 1960s , the risk partnership between the government and private sector encouraged excessive borrowing by the latter . 
The average corporate debt-to-equity ratio hovered between 300 and 400 percent between the 1970s and 1990s . 
The non-performing loans of banks grew in size , and the financial sector became increasingly vulnerable to external shocks . 
The financial crisis of 1997 , while inflicting extreme hardship on many Koreans , worked as a catalyst in solving many of these problems . 
Many chaebol went bankrupt and the public-private risk partnership disappeared . 
Government-led restructuring strengthened the financial health of the banking sector significantly . 
External liberalization , especially the opening of capital markets , accelerated Korea 's integration into the global economy . 
While pursuing liberalization , the government also modernized and strengthened prudential regulation and competition policy . 
A modern economic system finally came into operation . 
On the other hand , concerns have been raised in the 2000s on the growth potential of the Korean economy . 
Economic growth began to slow in the 1990s with the decelerating growth of the working-age population . 
Income distribution also started to deteriorate in the early 1990s , with the expansion of the knowledge-based economy and globalization leaving low-skilled workers at a disadvantage . 
At the same time , productivity gaps between manufacturing and services , between the HCIs and light industries , and between large and small companies are widening , and access to quality jobs is becoming more difficult . 
Summarized in this way , the economic history of Korea poses many interesting and important questions . 
For example , what are the main characteristics that distinguished Korea from other developing countries that failed to establish an industrial base ? 
What are the commonalities and disparities between Korea and other East Asian countries that achieved similar economic success ? 
Were financial repression , the HCI drive , and oppressive labor market policies inevitable choices for Korea ? 
What would have a more liberal , market-friendly policy achieved ? 
These questions hold relevance not only for Korea but other countries , and continue to generate discussions in academic and policy circles . 
To contribute to this debate , the following chapters describe the growth of the Korean economy from various perspectives . 
Chapter 2 chronicles the various market interventions made by the Korean government , including export promotion , the HCI drive , financial repression , the bail-out of private companies , and price controls . 
Some of the interventions , notably export promotion and investment in infrastructure and education , successfully addressed market failures and contributed to economic growth . 
But many others did more harm than good to the long-term growth and stability of the Korean economy . 
The author concludes that the government can and should play an important role in a country 's economic growth , but try to avoid the errors made by the Korean government . 
Chapter 3 documents Korea 's industrialization process , and offers an explanation on Korea 's structural changes in the growth accounting framework . 
The rapid capital accumulation based on Korea 's high savings rate accounts for a large part of output growth as has been noted in the existing literature . 
No less important , however , has been the rapid increase in total factor productivity -LRB- TFP -RRB- . 
Among other factors , international trade has made a particularly important contribution to TFP growth by stimulating innovation and technological progress and by encouraging the reallocation of resources from less to more productive sectors . 
The authors point out that a critical task for the Korean government is to maintain dynamism in the private sector , rather than designating certain industries as `` strategic '' and providing Korea 's with subsidies in the name of industrial policy . 
Chapter 4 explains the development of external economic policies in various areas － trade , foreign direct investment , economic cooperation , agriculture , services and financial markets . 
According to the authors , three rounds of devaluation in 1960 and 1961 prompted a sudden jump in exports in the early 1960s and led to a policy switch in the mid-1960s from import-substitution industrialization to export promotion . 
Various export-promotion measures neutralized the depressing effects of the protectionist policy on exports and cleared roadblocks to allow the growth of Korean exports in the global market . 
In this respect , a major contribution by the Korean government to export growth in the 1960s and thereafter lay in eliminating market distortions created by overvaluation and protectionism . 
Building on past success , future efforts should be directed at pursuing external liberalization consistently in all areas and strengthening market mechanisms . 
Chapter 5 reviews Korea 's territorial development over the last sixty years . 
In Korea , territorial policy has been assigned three main responsibilities : -LRB- 1 -RRB- supplying physical infrastructure for economic growth , -LRB- 2 -RRB- stabilizing real estate prices , and -LRB- 3 -RRB- promoting balanced regional growth . 
The first of these has achieved tremendous success thanks to heavy government investment , while the other two goals have fallen short . 
Various measures to reduce speculative real estate demand often increased price instability in the market . 
More successful in curbing property prices were the measures to increase the housing supply , such as the construction program adopted at the turn of the 1990s . 
The Korean government has also made recurrent efforts to promote balanced regional growth , but the population has continued to be concentrated in the capital region . 
A more market - friendly approach to regional development is called for that focuses on building `` soft '' infrastructure in regional communities while allowing the dynamic reallocation of resources across the country . 
Chapter 6 examines Korea 's social development with a focus on education , the labor market , welfare and health care policies . 
Up to the early 1990s , Korea could maintain relatively equitable income distribution due to several factors , including the explosive pace of economic growth and the rapid creation of jobs ; the promotion of mass education by the government ; and a labor market that functioned smoothly in most areas . 
But Korea currently faces many new challenges . 
Korea 's needs to upgrade the quality of education by decentralizing the education system and giving more power to parents and students . 
The sharp contrast in the labor market between core and periphery workers should be mitigated by relaxing legal employment protection provisions on the one hand and strengthening social welfare and active labor market programs on the other . 
Welfare policies achieved great progress , especially after the 1997 financial crisis , but further efforts are required to improve Welfare policies effectiveness , minimize Welfare policies adverse impact on work incentives , enhance long-term financial sustainability , and give a greater role to the private sector in the provision of services . 
To summarize , Korea has achieved not only tremendous economic growth but also broad-based social development in the last sixty years . 
Government policies have been broadly in line with market principles , in particular in regard to exchange rate and trade policies . 
Many challenges remain , but as long as Korea maintains Korea economic and social dynamism , the future will favor Korea . 
1 . 
Introduction 
Korea has achieved rapid economic growth and social development in the last five decades . 
Per capita income grew from 1,342 dollars 1 in 1960 to 19,227 dollars in 2008 . 
In the same period , life expectancy rose from 52.4 years to 79.6 years and infant mortality declined from 70 deaths per 1,000 births 2 to 3.4 deaths . 
The political structure also switched from an authoritarian one to a fully functioning democracy . 
In the 20th century , such sustained growth over decades can be found in only a handful of developing economies , including Korea and other East Asian countries . 
other East Asian countries socio - economic achievements have often been described as a ` miracle . ' 
Various interpretations have been offered for the role that governments played in leading or supporting these achievements -LRB- Aoki , Kim and Okuno-Fujiwara , 1997 -RRB- . 
According to the market-friendly view , the rapid growth was made possible by the government maintaining macroeconomic stability and heavy investments in human capital . 
On the other hand , the selective promotion of particular industries by government was either ineffective or counter-productive to overall growth since the selective promotion of particular industries by government hampered an efficient allocation of resources . 
This view , as represented by the World Bank -LRB- 1993 -RRB- , Noland and Pack -LRB- 2003 -RRB- , Jungho Yoo -LRB- 2004 -RRB- and others , emphasizes the primary role of government in helping the market mechanism to function properly . 
At the opposite end of the spectrum is the development-state view , which claims that prevalent market failures in the early years necessitated government intervention to correct government intervention . 
East Asian countries purposefully distorted relative prices `` getting -LRB- the prices wrong , '' Amsden , 1989 -RRB- and boosted investment in particular sectors , attaining rapid industrialization that would have been otherwise impossible . 
In the case of Korea , the truth may lie somewhere in between these two extreme views . 
Government intervention appears to have been more extensive than the World Bank -LRB- 1993 -RRB- admits . 
The promotion of exports in the 1960s and heavy and chemical industries -LRB- HCIs -RRB- in the 1970s was based on severe financial repression . 
The period up to the 1980s was characterized by high import barriers , restrictions on capital flows , widespread price controls , and repressive labor practices . 
On the other hand , a relatively stable macroeconomic environment , well-established private property rights , and large public spending on education -LRB- particularly primary education -RRB- and infrastructure investment were market-friendly aspects of government policy often ignored by proponents of the development-state view . 
Some authors have noted that Asian countries did not take the same road to growth -LRB- Perkins , 1994 -RRB- . 
Hong Kong and Singapore adopted laissez-faire attitudes from the beginning , whereas Japan , Korea and Taiwan took more dirigiste approaches in varying degrees . 
Late industrializers like Malaysia , Indonesia and Thailand , with Malaysia , Indonesia and Thailand abundant natural resources , relied heavily on foreign direct investment . 
China and India were distinctive in China and India eagerness not only to invite foreign direct investment but also to go abroad to acquire foreign firms . 
It would therefore be inappropriate to treat all Asian countries in the same manner . 
At any rate , few would argue that government intervention should continue in managing the Korean economy . 
Past interventions produced various problems , including an underdeveloped financial sector , excessive corporate reliance on debt financing , the accumulation of non-performing loans by banks , the concentration of economic power in the hands of a few large business conglomerates -LRB- the chaebol -RRB- , chronic inflation , and weak democracy . 
Recognizing these problems , the government began efforts in the 1980s to liberalize the market and redefine the government role . 
These efforts were not always successful , however , and full-scale liberalization was postponed until after the economic crisis of 1997 . 
This chapter discusses the history of the Korean economy during the last six decades . 
The central questions are whether various government interventions promoted or retarded economic growth , and what kind of policy lessons we can now draw for Korea and other developing countries . 
Of course , we should expect no definitive answers to such grand questions , but only meaningful insights that may guide further research . 
2 . 
Liberation and state-building -LRB- 1948-1959 -RRB- 
The liberation from Japanese colonial rule in 1945 left Korea in economic chaos . 
The complementary economic structure between the northern and southern parts of the peninsula was lost . 
Most of the Japanese businessmen , managers and technicians returned to Japan , leaving many firms bereft of management or technical expertise . 
The closely-knit ties with the Japanese economy , a vast market for Korean goods , were broken . 
A stupendous growth in money supply around the time of the liberation period generated hyperinflation . 
Amid these difficulties , the newly independent Korean government was installed in 1948 , and the newly independent Korean government immediately embarked on rebuilding the nation . 
Any serious effort , however , was delayed by the Korean War -LRB- 1950-1953 -RRB- . 
2 . 
1 Establishing a market economy based on private property ownership 
The American military government which was in charge of South Korea between 1945 and 1948 tried to introduce a modern market economy system . 
3 The American military government which was in charge of South Korea between 1945 and 1948 outlawed the so-called `` workers ' self-management '' of factories abandoned by Japanese owners and barred workers from interfering with managerial responsibilities -LRB- Yong-deok Jeon , 1997a -RRB- . 
The military government also began to sell confiscated Japanese-owned property despite calls for nationalization from both right - and left-wing political groups . 
The realized sales of companies and farmland during the three-year U.S. military rule were not large in size , but this was an important first step toward establishing a market economy based on private property ownership . 
Divesture continued under the newly established Korean government , and sales reached a peak in 1951-1953 . 
As a result , most of the Japanese-owned properties were converted into private ownership by 1958 . 
most of the Japanese-owned properties accounted for a large portion of the total national economy ; for example , among the companies with 300 or more employees , the share of privatized ones was roughly 40 percent in the 1950s . 
This achievement is notable given the predisposition toward socialism even among right-wing politicians at the time . 
4 
2 . 
2 Agricultural land reform 
Land surveys and registration conducted by the colonial government in the 1910s established the first modern system of property rights in Korea and reduced land transaction costs significantly . 
But it was not accompanied by measures to protect small farmers , and led to a wide disparity in agricultural land holdings -LRB- Seok-gon Cho , 2001 -RRB- . 
The Korean government responded to the increasing demand for agricultural land reform by enacting the Farmland Reform Act of 1949 and revising the Farmland Reform Act of 1949 in 1950 . 
The reform was based on the principle of `` compensated forfeiture and non-free distribution , '' whereby the government bought farmland from landlords at forced prices and sold the colonial government in the 1910s to farmers at below-market rates . 
The reform had many elements that ran counter to private property rights . 
The compensation to landlords was less than the market price , leading to big losses for the landlords -LRB- Yong-deok Jeon , 1997b -RRB- . 
5 The Farmland Reform Act also banned farmland ownership by non-farmers , stipulated the maximum amount of landholdings per farmer , and prohibited tenant farming . 
Nevertheless , from the perspective of private property rights , `` compensated forfeiture and non-free distribution '' was a better option than `` uncompensated forfeiture and free distribution '' as espoused by left-wing groups and `` compensated forfeiture and free distribution '' by centrist groups . 
The most pressing task at the time was state-building , based on the support of farmers who constituted by far the largest part of the Korean population , even if this meant some infringements on the private property rights of landlords . 
Agricultural land reform contributed not only to state-building , but also to redistributing wealth and reducing income inequalities . 
Everyone was now placed on a more or less equal footing , and individual effort and ability rather than family wealth became the most important determinant for individual success . 
Many believe that the Koreans ' characteristic diligence and the Koreans ' emphasis on education were motivated by this perception of equal opportunity . 
On the negative side , however , restrictions on farmland holdings hampered the growth of large-scale farming and contributed to the low productivity growth of the agricultural sector in later years . 
2 . 
3 Economic reconstruction plans and foreign aid 
Rhee Syngman , the first president of the young republic , strived to rebuild the economy with a series of reconstruction plans . 
6 These plans aimed to expand the economic infrastructure , build key industries -LRB- cement , steel , etc. -RRB- and increase the productive capacity of manufacturing -LRB- Sang-oh Choi , 2005 , pp.358-359 -RRB- . 
Rhee 's desire to construct a self-sufficient Korean economy with these plans was in direct conflict with the American government 's intention to rebuild an East Asian economic bloc with an industrialized Japan at the American government 's center . 
America urged Korea to liberalize the American government 's market , stabilize the value of the Korean currency , and expand cooperation with Japan . 
To Rhee , however , this implied nothing but the revival of the Greater East Asian Co-Prosperity Sphere and the re-colonialization of the Korean economy . 
Rhee made full use of Korea 's geopolitical value to frustrate America 's effort while promoting import-substitution industries through reconstruction plans . 
The Korean government also differed with the Americans on what kind of foreign aid The Korean government would receive . 
There were two types , one being project assistance and the other non - project assistance . 
The former was to be used for reconstruction , while the latter was to be distributed to private enterprises for civilian use . 
Korea received a large amount of foreign aid from the United Nations and the U.S. in the 1950s and 1960s . 
8 The Korean government preferred project assistance , while the American government preferred non-project assistance . 
In the end , the American preference prevailed ; under ICA -LRB- International Cooperation Administration -RRB- aid , for example , project assistance made up 27 percent of the total and non-project assistance 73 percent . 
In any event , various reconstruction plans prepared by Rhee 's administration failed to spark economic growth in Korea . 
various reconstruction plans prepared by Rhee 's administration remained just that － plans . 
2 . 
4 Exchange rate and trade policies 
Throughout the 1950s , the Korean government maintained a complicated multiple exchange rate system -LRB- Frank , Kim and Westphal , 1975 -RRB- . 
In addition to the official rate , there were separate rates applied to the counterpart fund 9 and to military payments certificates -LRB- MPCs -RRB- . 
10 The overvaluation of the Korean won under these rates either reduced the government 's burden -LRB- as in the case of the counterpart fund rate -RRB- or increased the Korean government revenues -LRB- as in the case of the MPC rate -RRB- . 
The government reluctantly adjusted exchange rates from time to time when the Korean government could no longer withstand pressure from America . 
An overvalued exchange rate discouraged imports . 
Imports were further discouraged by quantitative restrictions that the Korean government employed to promote import - substitution industrialization . 
Trade Programs , which were published semi-annually by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry , listed three types of goods : -LRB- 1 -RRB- freely-imported items , -LRB- 2 -RRB- restricted items whose import required prior approval from relevant ministries , and -LRB- 3 -RRB- banned items -LRB- Sang-cheol Lee , 2001 , p. 459 -RRB- . 
Banned items referred to those that were produced domestically in sufficient quantity to meet all domestic demand . 
Restricted items were those whose domestic production could not meet all demand . 
The tariff system was also geared to protecting domestic industry . 
From 1945 to 1949 , a single tariff rate of 10 percent was levied on all items except for foreign aid goods . 
In 1950 , the government enacted the Tariff Act that imposed different rates depending on whether the item was produced domestically or not , and whether the item was a finished good or not . 
Tariff rates were generally high , ranging between 27.4 and 66.5 percent in the latter half of the 1950s . 
Export promotion was also pursued , but the focus was not on actively promoting exports but on mitigating the impediments to exports . 
An example is the Foreign Exchange Deposit System , which allowed exporters to deposit foreign currencies earned from exports at the Bank of Korea -LRB- BOK -RRB- and to use foreign currencies earned from exports at the Bank of Korea -LRB- BOK -RRB- to pay for imports or sell the foreign currencies to other importers at market rates . 
However , direct subsidies for exports were minimal . 
2 . 
5 Financial market policies 
According to Jung-en Woo -LRB- 1991 , p. 60 -RRB- , Korea in the 1950s exhibited a textbook example of financial repression . 
The official lending rate by banks was capped at 20 percent when the curb market rate was well above that . 
11 In addition , the credit priority regulation and the credit ceiling regulation enabled the government to control bank lending directly -LRB- Pyung-joo Kim , 1995 , p. 188 -RRB- . 
In January 1954 , the Korea Development Bank -LRB- KDB -RRB- was launched as a solely government-owned bank . 
the Korea Development Bank -LRB- KDB -RRB- mission was to provide long-term credits to key industries . 
the Korea Development Bank -LRB- KDB -RRB- financed over 70 percent of total equipment loans and over 10 percent of total working capital loans made by financial institutions -LRB- Joon-kyung Kim , 1993 -RRB- . 
the Korea Development Bank -LRB- KDB -RRB- raised funds by borrowing from the government fiscal loan program -LRB- 50 percent of the funds in the 1950s -RRB- and issuing bonds -LRB- 37 percent -RRB- . 
The real interest rate remained negative most of the time due to low official rates and high inflation , discouraging savings and increasing demand for credit . 
Credit demand always surpassed savings despite the regulations mentioned above , and commercial banks had to rely on the central bank rediscount facility to fill the gap . 
Before 1957 , about half of bank lending was financed by the central bank in this way -LRB- Jung-en Woo , 1991 , p. 62 -RRB- . 
The excessive reliance on the central bank rediscount facility inevitably generated high inflation . 
Money supply was increased further by central bank lending to the government to finance essential public services , such as defense and the police . 
Annual inflation fluctuated between 20 and 400 percent between 1946 and 1957 -LRB- Table 2-1 -RRB- . 
The root cause of high inflation lay in the lack of operational independence of the central bank . 
Arthur Bloomfield , an economist at the New York Fed , recommended the establishment of an independent central bank resembling the Federal Reserve Bank . 
Following Arthur Bloomfield , an economist at the New York Fed , advice , the Bank of Korea Act and the Banking Act were enacted in May 1950 . 
The Bank of Korea Act , however , failed to bestow full independence on the central bank . 
The implementation of the Banking Act was postponed until August 1954 due to the delay in the privatization and recapitalization of banks . 
From 1954 , the government attempted five times to sell The military government shares in banks , but failed . 
The military government could finalize the sales in February 1957 only after relaxing the eligibility conditions for bids . 
In the end , each major chaebol came to own a bank , which accelerated the concentration of economic power -LRB- Pyung-joo Kim , 1995 , p. 190 -RRB- . 
The military government re-nationalized the banks in 1961 shortly after seizing power . 
2 . 
6 Performance of economic policies in the 1950s 
Throughout the 1950s , the Korean government maintained an overvalued exchange rate , restricted imports , regulated interest rates and bank lending , and undermined central bank independence . 
These market interventions created economic rents , which amounted to 16-19 percent of GNP according to Nak-nyeon Kim -LRB- 1999 -RRB- . 
Of these , the rents resulting from exchange controls amounted to 11-15 percent of GNP and those resulting from financial repression 3-8 percent of GNP . 
The question is how much of these rents were utilized in productive activities . 
Sang-oh Choi -LRB- 2005 -RRB- observes that rents were distributed mostly to those who put rents to productive use , and stimulated economic reconstruction at the time . 
Sang-oh Choi -LRB- 2005 -RRB- cites the case of the cotton spinning industry , which lost 66 percent of the cotton spinning industry , which lost 66 percent of its facilities during the war , but recovered soon after facilities during the war , but recovered soon after and even encountered over-capacity in the latter half of 1956 . 
Younghoon Rhee -LRB- 2007 -RRB- also claims that the government maintained a certain degree of consistency and ethical standards in distributing dollars obtained from foreign aid and military payment advances to civilians . 
In fact , real output grew by 3.8 percent annually in 1953-1960 . 
This is about half the rate witnessed in the 1960s and afterwards , but it can hardly be called `` stagnation . '' 
Contrary to these views , some authors believe that the government policies at the time encouraged zero-sum rent-seeking activities rather than positive-sum productive ones , leading to the underperformance of the Korean economy far below the time growth potential . 
Jones and SaKong -LRB- 1980 , pp.270-274 -RRB- describe the rapid growth of the chaebol after the liberation , and declare that the major sources of accumulation were -LRB- 1 -RRB- non-competitive allocation of import quotas and import licenses , -LRB- 2 -RRB- the bargain price acquisition of former Japanese properties , -LRB- 3 -RRB- the selective allocation of aid funds and materials , -LRB- 4 -RRB- privileged access to cheap bank loans , and -LRB- 5 -RRB- the non-competitive award of government and U.S. military contracts for reconstruction activities . 
To be successful as an entrepreneur , one had to build close ties with politicians and return politicians favors with cash -LRB- Jung-en Woo , 1991 , pp.65-69 -RRB- . 
However plausible each of these contrasting views is , it is not possible to make any quantitative judgment on this issue . 
We will conclude this section by looking at policy changes taken in 1957 . 
In the mid-1950s , the view gained wide support within America that the best way to win the war against communism lay in promoting the economic growth of America allies . 
The American government subsequently separated military and economic aid , and began to reduce the former while increasing the latter . 
In addition , America reduced unrequited transfers and introduced the Development Loan Fund in America place . 
American aid to Korea peaked in 1957 and declined rapidly thereafter . 
At the same time , the American government pressed the Koreans to adopt the Financial Stabilization Program -LRB- 1957-1960 -RRB- to eliminate large budget deficits and curb rapid monetary expansion . 
Unlike previous efforts , stabilization under the Program relied on a systematic framework comprising annual targets for M1 growth and quarterly and monthly implementation plans . 
This provided the first opportunity for Korean officials to learn the techniques of controlling money supply -LRB- Pyung-joo Kim , 1995 , p. 187 -RRB- . 
3 . 
Export promotion and government-led industrialization -LRB- 1960-1979 -RRB- 
Park Chung-hee , who came into power in 1961 through a military coup , adopted a government-led growth strategy to build an industrial base for Korea . 
The strategy rested on promoting exports and heavy and chemical industries -LRB- HCIs -RRB- . 
For this purpose , financial repression was continued and imports were restricted . 
Below we will explore various aspects of the growth strategy in the 1960s and 1970s . 
3 . 
1 Export promotion 
As the new president , Park proclaimed that economic development would be the central agenda of the new president administration -LRB- Soon Cho , 1991 , pp.175-177 -RRB- . 
He and his aides and the new president aides understood the importance of economic success in legitimizing He and his aides forceful seizure of power . 
He and his aides ideological orientation was far from a free market economic model and He and his aides made many mistakes . 
12 Still , He and his aides managed to adopt active export promotion and this later turned out to be the most important reason for He and his aides success . 
Initially , export promotion was pursued in response to the rapid depletion of foreign exchange reserves -LRB- Sang-cheol Lee , 2005 , p. 394 -RRB- . 
The reserves began to decline in March 1962 due to the large repayment of short-term commercial loans raised in 1961 and 1962 to finance the first Five-Year Economic Development Plan -LRB- 1962-1966 -RRB- . 
13 Faced with the specter of a foreign exchange crisis , the government introduced various measures . 
In January 1963 , the export-import link system was introduced to give exporters the right to import foreign goods equal to the full amount of exports . 
In the meantime , exports began to grow rapidly following the two rounds of devaluation in February and October of 1960 . 
14 Starting with a 66 percent growth in 1960 , exports increased by 43 percent a year up to 1964 . 
Bolstered by the success , the government started more serious efforts to promote exports in 1964-1965 . 
First , a new exchange rate regime was announced in May 1964 . 
Multiple fixed rates were consolidated into a single variable rate , and the won was devalued by almost half from 130 to 255 won per dollar . 
The real exchange rate has maintained a competitive and stable level since then . 
Figure 2-1 shows the won/dollar real exchange rate and the won 's real effective exchange rate over the past decades , and compares them to the dollar 's performance . 
At the same time , the government phased out various ad hoc export subsidies and the export-import link system , and established a comprehensive and consistent export incentive mechanism -LRB- Kwang Suk Kim , 1994 , p. 322 ; Choong Yong Ahn and Joo-Hoon Kim 1995 , p. 324 -RRB- . 
Key measures were -LRB- 1 -RRB- export credits that were automatically extended to exporters who turned in letters of credit and -LRB- 2 -RRB- tariff exemptions on imports of intermediate inputs . 
15 Of particular importance were the export credits , whose share in total bank credit rose from 4.5 percent in 1961-1965 to 7.6 percent in 1966-1972 and then to 13.3 percent in 1973-1981 -LRB- Table 2-2 -RRB- . 
The interest rate on export credits was kept at low levels , and the gap with the general interest rate reached 17 percentage points during the high-interest rate period of 1966-1972 . 
See Chapter 4 for further discussion on export promotion policies in the 1960s . 
These incentives were augmented by administrative measures . 
First , a target was set for each year 's total exports by adding up the export forecasts of individual firms . 
This practice was often called `` export targeting . '' 
Second , Monthly Export Promotion Meetings were held , where government officials and business representatives gathered to monitor export performance , compared This practice to export targets , identified problems , and sought solutions . 
The president The president chaired the meetings . 
Third , the Korea Traders Association and the Korea Trade Promotion Agency -LRB- KOTRA -RRB- were launched . 
KOTRA took charge of building overseas networks , helped the marketing activities of domestic firms , and collected market information . 
Exports as a proportion of GDP rose from 5 percent in 1963 to 28 percent in 1973 -LRB- Figure 2-2 -RRB- . 
International trade is known to produce multiple benefits . 
16 The question is whether various schemes introduced in the mid-1960s were really helpful in promoting exports . 
Kwang Suk Kim -LRB- 1994 , p. 326 -RRB- notes that they did not raise financial gains for exporters much . 
Even before the exchange rate reform , exporters could convert exporters foreign currency earnings into domestic currencies at market rates through the foreign exchange deposit system . 
Devaluation of the won therefore did not suddenly increase exporters ' profits . 
The total amount of various subsidies to individual exporters was also similar in the 1950s and 1960s . 
Jones and SaKong -LRB- 1980 , p. 96 -RRB- propose other reasons for the rapid growth of exports . 
According to Jones and SaKong -LRB- 1980 , p. 96 -RRB- , `` the most important cause for the change was probably the reduction of alternative higher-yielding sources of entrepreneurial income . 
If you can make 100 percent in a few months with little risk , through privileged access to foreign exchange , there is little point in devoting effort to the difficult and complicated task of exploring export markets and putting together internationally competitive productive combinations . 
The exchange rate reform closed out the zero-sum sources of rent , reduced opportunity costs , and drove rent-seekers into productive positive - sum activity . '' 
the exchange rate reform also note that other factors such as the decline in exchange rate variability and the commitment to growth by a politically stable government must have played an important role in creating a favorable business climate . 
3 . 
2 Government-led industrialization 
`` Industrialization '' was the central theme of the Five-Year Economic Plans that started in 1962 . 
The initial version of the first Plan -LRB- 1962-1966 -RRB- assigned 34 percent of gross investment to mining and manufacturing -LRB- Eun-bok Lee , 1986 , pp.777-778 -RRB- . 
The revised version -LRB- 1964 -RRB- declared the Korean government 's ambition to modernize the industrial sector and enhance the Korean government 's international competitiveness by rapidly expanding key industries -LRB- cement , fertilizer , industrial machinery , oil refinery and others -RRB- , fostering related industries , and promoting new export and import-substitution industries . 
The second Plan -LRB- 1967-1971 -RRB- placed emphasis on HCIs , including steel , machinery and petrochemical industries . 
In case of steel industry , the Steel Industry Promotion Act was enacted in 1969 to support the construction of a large-scale integrated iron and steel mill and other kinds of mills by granting tax exemptions to mills -LRB- Ki-jun Lee , 1986 , p. 786 -RRB- . 
In other industries , similar laws － the Machinery Industry Promotion Act -LRB- 1967 -RRB- , the Shipbuilding Industry Promotion Act -LRB- 1967 -RRB- , the Textile Industry Modernization Act -LRB- 1967 -RRB- , the Electronics Industry Promotion Act -LRB- 1969 -RRB- , the Petrochemical Industry Promotion Act -LRB- 1970 -RRB- , the Nonferrous Metal Producing Business Act -LRB- 1971 -RRB- － were introduced to provide financial and tax incentives to these industries -LRB- Kwang Suk Kim and Joon-kyung Kim , 1995 , p. 49 -RRB- . 
Of particular importance to the government was the construction of a petrochemical complex and an integrated iron and steel mill . 
Both projects had to rely almost entirely on foreign technology and capital , and Both projects encountered many difficulties at the beginning . 
Construction began in 1969 and 1970 , respectively , after several years of struggle . 
The government also made considerable efforts to alleviate shortages in economic infrastructure . 
Electric power development projects were carried out from 1962 and the supply of electric power came to exceed demand in the mid-1960s . 
Road construction also succeeded in easing transport difficulties with the completion of major expressways . 
The Seoul-Incheon , Seoul-Busan and Honam Expressways were opened in 1968 , 1970 and 1973 , respectively . 
A full-scale drive toward HCIs began in 1973 . 
On January 1st , Park Chung-hee stated in Park Chung-hee New Year 's press conference that `` the government is announcing the HCI project to promote HCIs . 
To achieve a 10 billion dollar target of annual exports by the early 1980s , the share of HCIs in total exports should be raised to well over 50 percent . 
From now on , the government will accelerate the promotion of HCIs such as steel , shipbuilding and petrochemical industries , and thereby increase steel , shipbuilding and petrochemical industries exports -LRB- Yeong-koo Park , 2005 , p. 406 -RRB- . '' 
The HCI Drive Committee was organized shortly after , and the Committee presented the HCI Drive Plan in June . 
Targets were set to achieve per capita income of 1,000 dollars and annual exports of 10 billion dollars . 
Through industrial deepening and export mix upgrading , the share of HCIs in total industrial production was to be raised from 35 to 51 percent between 1972 and 1981 , and the share of HCIs in total industrial production share in total exports from 27 to 65 percent . 
For this purpose , six strategic industries － steel , nonferrous metal , machinery , shipbuilding , electronics , and chemical engineering － were selected . 
The Plan was revised slightly in the fourth Five-Year Economic Plan -LRB- 1977-1981 -RRB- prepared after the first oil shock , but in most part , it was pursued with great consistency until the Comprehensive Economic Stabilization Program was introduced in April 1979 . 
Various reasons have been suggested for the adoption of the HCI drive -LRB- Choong Yong Ahn and Joo-Hoon Kim , 1995 , p. 329 -RRB- . 
First , the government felt the urgent need to strengthen the American government self-defense capacity by building a defense industry . 
Concerns about national security grew as North Korea 's military provocations increased in frequency toward the end of the 1960s . 
Furthermore , the American government announced in 1968 that the American government ground troops would be gradually pulled out of Korea in 1971-1975 . 
Second , the American government was considered necessary to upgrade the industrial structure and find new export industries to maintain a safe lead over newly industrializing countries . 
Policymakers thought that HCIs would provide new sources of growth . 
Government support to HCIs took various forms ; -LRB- 1 -RRB- providing long-term credits and tax incentives to selected industries ; -LRB- 2 -RRB- establishing and expanding vocational schools and training centers to supply skilled manpower ; and -LRB- 3 -RRB- creating government-funded research institutions to carry out R&D activities as a public good -LRB- Kwang Suk Kim , 1994 , pp. 347 - 348 ; Choong Yong Ahn and Joo-Hoon Kim , 1995 , p. 330 -RRB- . 
Perhaps the most important of these were the credit programs . 
By controlling the financial sector , the government could supply vast amount of directed credits with low interest rates and share investment risk with private enterprises . 
The National Investment Fund -LRB- NIF -RRB- , established in 1974 , played an important role in this regard . 
Banks , insurance companies and public funds were required to lend a certain portion of Banks , insurance companies and public funds funds to NIF . 
17 The NIF lent these funds in turn to financial institutions at low interest rates -LRB- 5 percentage points below the rates on general long-term bank credits on average before 1982 -RRB- for very long periods -LRB- 8-10 years in some cases -RRB- . 
In 1974-1991 , 80 percent of the lending was assigned to specialized banks -LRB- including development banks -RRB- , 17 percent to commercial banks , and 3 percent to regional banks . 
In 1974-1981 , 62 percent of NIF lending was assigned to KDB , and the NIF accounted for 57 percent of total equipment loans by financial institutions . 
This share reached 70 percent in the late 1970s , when big industrial complexes were being built around the country . 
On top of directed credits , various tax incentives were offered to HCIs . 
Tae-won Kwack -LRB- 1985 -RRB- estimated the marginal effective tax rates of HCIs to be 30-35 percentage points lower than those of light industries during the height of the HCI drive -LRB- Figure 2-3 -RRB- . 
Also notable were public-sector R&D activities . 
The total of public and private R&D spending remained below 0.5 percent of GDP throughout the 1970s , far below the current level of around 3 percent -LRB- Figure 2-4 -RRB- . 
The public sector played a leading role in those years , accounting for 50-70 percent of total R&D spending . 
The government launched many research institutions whose mission was to import advanced foreign technologies , modify The government to suit local needs , and disseminate the results . 
Yeong-koo Park -LRB- 2005 -RRB- summarizes the characteristics of the HCI drive in the following way . 
First , it had a clear export orientation , going beyond import-substitution industrialization . 
Its primary goal , as stated by President Park in President New Year 's press conference , was to increase total annual exports to 10 billion dollars . 
Such export orientation exposed domestic firms to international competition , forcing domestic firms to constantly improve productivity . 
Second , the government led the drive but left actual implementation to the private sector . 
In most cases , the government confined the government role to providing financial and tax incentives to large private enterprises such as Samsung and Hyundai , and refrained from direct participation in industrial production . 
This distinguished Korea 's strategy from those of other developing countries at the time . 
Third , the HCI drive took demand conditions and government budget constraints into full consideration . 
Priority was given to finished goods production , and then went upstream to intermediate inputs and raw materials . 
Even in the case of the defense industry , 80 percent of the capacity was allocated to the production of civilian goods in order to maximize capacity utilization . 
The HCI Drive Plan specified funding requirements for each project , and care was taken not to exceed the budget ceiling . 
The HCI drive , however , was not always planned and implemented with care . 
Yung Bong Kim -LRB- 2003 -RRB- observes that `` given the haste with which the HCI Drive Plan was prepared , it is extremely unlikely that economic benefits of individual investment projects were carefully evaluated . '' 
In implementing the Plan , `` the detailed targets and modes of individual projects were often determined through bargains between politicians , bureaucrats and businessmen , with bureaucrats selecting the firms to benefit from the projects . '' 
If this observation was true , there must have occurred no small degree of inefficiencies in implementing the Plan . 
Different authors have expressed different views on the success or failure of the HCI drive . 
On one side are those who believe that it was mostly a failure . 
Indeed , the HCI drive produced excess capacity . 
In 1975-1980 , capacity utilization in machinery , electrical instruments and transportation equipment was around 50 percent , well below the average capacity utilization of over 70 percent in total manufacturing -LRB- Table 2-3 -RRB- . 
This indicates the existence of inefficiencies in resource allocation . 
Jungho Yoo -LRB- 1991 -RRB- shows that HCIs exhibited a very low capital efficiency compared to light industries , and claims that the HCI drive retarded overall output growth . 
Jong-Wha Lee -LRB- 1996 -RRB- finds no correlation between industrial policies , such as tax incentives and subsidized credit , and total factor productivity growth in the promoted sectors . 
Jong-Wha Lee -LRB- 1996 -RRB- further shows that trade protection reduced growth rates of labor productivity and total factor productivity . 
The HCI drive has also been criticized for The HCI drive negative impact on other aspects of the national economy . 
Large amounts of policy lending led to the unhealthy accumulation of debts by enterprises . 
Acting as vehicles for the HCI drive , the chaebol further increased the chaebol economic power . 
Excessive monetary expansion produced chronic inflation . 
Most importantly , financial repression obstructed the development of a competitive financial sector and increased the inefficiency in financial intermediation . 
On the other hand , some authors argue the HCI drive should be evaluated from the perspective of a dynamic comparative advantage . 
20 According to some authors , Korea could make full use of the `` three lows '' 21 in the mid-1980s because of the industrial base built during the HCI drive , which provided an opportunity to deepen industrial structures and upgrade the export mix . 
It is difficult to assess the impact of HCI drive on Korea 's growth path because of our limited ability to construct counterfactuals . 
International comparisons , however , provide some clues . 
Radelet , Sachs and Lee -LRB- 1997 -RRB- , after reviewing the different paths taken by East and Southeast Asian countries -LRB- Korea , Taiwan , Hong Kong , Singapore , Thailand , Malaysia , China and Indonesia -RRB- , concluded that `` while the promotion of heavy industry may have been beneficial in some identifiable cases , it surely was not the common denominator that accounts for the rapid growth across East and Southeast Asia . 
Instead , the common denominator was manufactured exports , supported by a regime best characterized as free trade for exporters . 
The varied experiences of the countries of East and Southeast Asia indicate that both an open market and a more interventionist approach that offsets other distortions can be made to work , as long as manufacturers face the acid test of operating on world markets , both for imported inputs and exports . 
East Asia ` successful industrial policy strategy was to support labor-intensive manufactured exports , not capital-intensive heavy industries -LRB- emphases by the original authors -RRB- . '' 
From this perspective , Korea 's favorable growth performance was due to Korea 's export orientation taken since the 1960s rather than the HCI drive Korea 's . 
Of course , without definite proof for or against the effectiveness of the HCI drive , the debate will continue . 
3 . 
3 Import liberalization 
The government promoted exports but maintained restrictions on imports to contain current account deficits and protect domestic industries . 
Tariff rates began to decline slowly in the early 1970s , but Tariff rates levels remained very high until the early 1980s -LRB- Table 2-4 -RRB- . 
On the other hand , quantitative restrictions were reduced significantly . 
The previous positive list system whereby the Ministry of Commerce and Industry designated freely imported , restricted and banned items was turned into a negative list system in July 1967 . 
In the new system , only restricted and banned items were identified , and all other items could be imported without restriction . 
In Figure 2-5 , ` liberalization of quantitative restrictions ' is defined as the number of freely-imported items divided by the number of total items . 
This ratio jumped from 9.3 percent in 1966 to 52.4 percent in 1967 . 
Between 1968 and 1977 , however , quantitative restrictions were strengthened , and total import liberalization remained at around 55 percent . 
Compared to Japan and Taiwan , which had already raised the liberalization ratio above 90 percent in the mid-1960s and mid-1970s , respectively , liberalization proceeded very slowly in Korea -LRB- Young-Sun Lee , 1986 , p. 812 -RRB- . 
Quantitative restrictions were aimed mainly at protecting the domestic HCI and agricultural sectors -LRB- Jungho Yoo , 1991 , p. 70 -RRB- . 
It was almost impossible to import the items in these protected sectors . 
Import liberalization made a fresh start in 1978 with the announcement of three separate liberalization schedules . 
It was put off again due to the second oil shock that occurred in 1979 , but continued after 1980 . 
It gained full momentum in 1984 as the external balance was restored . 
3 . 
4 Large increase in foreign borrowing 
Capital account opening was also pursued . 
In so far as Capital account opening goal was to encourage foreign capital inflow to fill the gap in domestic savings , however , liberalization remained selective and partial . 
In January 1960 , the Foreign Capital Inflow Inducement Act was enacted but did not succeed in attracting much inflow . 
In July 1962 , the new administration introduced the Foreign Borrowing Repayment Guarantee Act to provide guarantees not only to public but also private borrowing . 
These two laws were merged into the Foreign Capital Inflow Act in August 1966 -LRB- Pyung-joo Kim 1995 , p. 199 -RRB- . 
At the same time , the government agreed with Japan to normalize the government diplomatic relationship in return for reparation payments of 500 million dollars 22 and commercial loans of 300 million dollars -LRB- Jung-en Woo , 1991 , pp.85-87 -RRB- . 
All these efforts led to the heady growth of foreign borrowing . 
Access to state guarantees was considered a privilege , and all private enterprises wanted to get a share regardless of the viability of all private enterprises business plans . 
The large gap between domestic and foreign interest rates due to the interest rate reform in 1965 also encouraged foreign borrowing . 
Figure 2-6 shows that the outstanding stock of external liabilities , rising from 4 percent of GDP in 1962 , hovered at around 40 percent in the 1970s , and rose further to 50-60 percent in the early 1980s . 
This ratio went down to close to 20 percent only after the current account experienced large surpluses in the latter half of the 1980s due to the `` three lows . '' 
23 
Addiction to debt financing took root in this period . 
The debt-to-equity ratio in the manufacturing sector rose from 100 percent in the mid-1960s to 300-400 percent in the 1970s -LRB- Figure 2-7 -RRB- . 
Interest payments turned more onerous , as reflected in the interest coverage ratio of 100-200 percent in the 1970s through 1990s . 
This implies that operating profits could barely cover interest expenses in those years . 
23 The outstanding stock of debt liabilities corresponded to about 25 percent of M2 stock -LRB- and similarly of the bank lending stock -RRB- in 
1962 , rose to about 150 percent in the 1970s , and then went back to 20-30 percent after the three-low period . 
Toward the end of the 1960s , many enterprises were no longer able to repay foreign loans . 
Banks , which were in charge of providing guarantees on foreign borrowing , also met difficulties -LRB- Jin-hyeon Kim , 1986 , p. 600 ; Eun-bok Lee , 1986 , p. 783 -RRB- . 
In response , the government began to strengthen qualitative and quantitative restrictions on borrowing and paid greater attention to attracting foreign direct investment -LRB- FDI -RRB- . 
the government launched a program to attract FDI , designated the Masan Free Export Zone in 1970 , and enacted a special law prohibiting labor unions in foreign companies -LRB- Ki-jun Lee , 1986 , pp.792-793 ; In-hwan Noh , 1986 , p. 567 -RRB- . 
FDI inflows , however , remained meager -LRB- Figure 2-8 -RRB- . 
It was not only because Korea was not a very attractive place for multinational corporations , but also because there were still many restrictions on FDI inflows . 
Restrictions were also placed on capital outflows as reflected in the low level of external assets in Figure 2-6 . 
Full-fledged market opening for both inflows and outflows came only after the economic crisis of 1997 . 
Since the late 1960s , widespread insolvency in the corporate sector had been a recurrent problem . 
the corporate sector left banks with piles of non-performing loans and threatened the stability of the whole financial system . 
The government intervened frequently to stabilize the market , but never tried to redress the root cause of the problem -LRB- i.e. , excessive debt financing -RRB- . 
In fact , government interventions , by propping up ailing firms with public money and other emergency measures , heightened the expectation that the government would always offer a helping hand in times of difficulty , which encouraged further borrowing . 
This will be discussed below in detail . 
3 . 
5 Financial repression 
The government increased intervention in domestic financial markets to support the government-led growth strategy , reversing the course from the 1950s -LRB- Pyung-joo Kim , 1995 , p. 199 ; Seok-mo Koo , 1986 , p. 127 -RRB- . 
First , commercial banks were renationalized . 
The government promptly enacted the Act to Dispose of Illegally Accumulated Wealth in July 1961 and confiscated bank shares in October . 
The government was now in full command of commercial as well as specialized banks . 
The government also strengthened The government grip on the central bank by revising the Bank of Korea Act in May 1962 . 
The Financial and Monetary Board was renamed as the Financial and Monetary Operation Board to emphasize the operational , in contrast to policy-making , role of the Board . 
The Minister for Finance was given the right to request the Board to reconsider the Board decisions . 
When the Board stuck to an initial decision by a super-majority -LRB- over two-thirds of the votes -RRB- , the final decision was to be made by the cabinet . 
Thus the ultimate responsibility for monetary policy came to rest clearly with the government . 
The BOK was also subject to inspections by the Ministry of Finance and to audits by the Board of Audit and Inspection , and the decision on the BOK 's annual budget was transferred from the Board to the government . 
The Banking Act was revised twice , in May 1962 and January 1969 , to reinforce government control of banks . 
The control was often exercised through notices and instructions from the Ministry of Finance without any clear legal basis , and affected all areas of management . 
At the same time , the BOK also exercised control on commercial banks through the BOK rediscount facility on which banks depended heavily . 
The government also established various specialized banks . 
The Industrial Bank of Korea -LRB- 1961 -RRB- , the National Agricultural Cooperative Federation -LRB- 1962 -RRB- , the National Federation of Fisheries Cooperatives -LRB- 1962 -RRB- , Kookmin Bank -LRB- 1963 -RRB- , Korea Exchange Bank -LRB- 1967 -RRB- , Korea Development Financing Cooperation -LRB- 1967 -RRB- , Korea Trust Bank -LRB- 1968 -RRB- , Housing and Commercial Bank -LRB- 1969 -RRB- , and the Export-Import Bank of Korea -LRB- 1976 -RRB- were established in addition to KDB -LRB- 1954 -RRB- . 
This array of apparatus enabled the government to intervene in the market quite extensively . 
The only incident where the government retreated from market intervention was the decision to raise interest rates in 1965 following the recommendation by American advisers － Hugh Patrick , Edward Shaw and John Gurley -LRB- Jung-en Woo , 1991 , p. 103 -RRB- . 
On September 30 , 1965 , the rate on time deposits was doubled from 15 to 30 percent , and the lending rate was increased from 15 to 26 percent . 
Such a steep rise in interest rates shocked the business community that had grown accustomed to very low rates . 
The interest rate reform had two purposes . 
The first was to encourage savings in banks and other financial institutions . 
The higher rate was expected to attract financial resources from the curb market , which offered an interest rate of over 50 percent , to the regulated market . 
The second was to enhance the efficiency of resource allocation . 
The higher rate would raise the opportunity costs of capital and prevent wasteful investment . 
Indeed , time deposits at banks increased by half by December , and doubled each year afterwards . 
Time deposits as a proportion to GDP rose from 2 percent to 21 percent between 1964 and 1969 , and total deposits from 6 percent to 29 percent . 
The reform , however , entailed unintended consequences . 
Banks incurred losses because the lending rate was below the deposit rate , and the BOK had to subsidize Banks incurred losses because the lending rate by paying interest on reserve requirements . 
More serious were the increase in foreign borrowing induced by the large gap between domestic and foreign interest rates and a resulting increase in corporate insolvency . 
These problems led the government to revoke the interest rate reform and cut interest rates -LRB- Seung-yun Lee , 1986 , pp.196-197 -RRB- . 
The rate cut was carried out in six stages between April 1968 and August 1972 . 
The government also organized the Taskforce to Restructure Insolvent Firms within the presidential office in 1969 and began closing down or merging insolvent firms -LRB- Pyung-joo Kim , 1995 , p. 200 ; Jin-hyeon Kim , 1986 , p. 600 ; Jung - en Woo , 1991 , pp.109-110 -RRB- . 
Entering the 1970s , output growth slowed due to the recession in major trading partner countries and the stabilization program adopted after IMF recommendations . 
At the same time , repayment of foreign loans began in full , and imposed serious burdens on indebted firms . 
The large devaluation of 1971 , part of the stabilization program , added to the burden . 
Many firms turned to the curb market to tide over the difficulties -LRB- Chung-yum Kim , 2006 , pp.313-314 -RRB- . 
The business community demanded government action to alleviate The business community financial burden . 
In 1972 , the government responded with a fifth and sixth interest rate cut -LRB- in January and August , respectively -RRB- and the August 3rd Measure . 
24 The Measure aimed at relieving enterprises from the burden of curb market loans and providing special financial support . 
All curb market lenders and borrowers were required to report all All curb market lenders and borrowers loans held as of August 2nd to tax offices or banks between August 3rd and 9th . 
Borrowers were exempted from repaying unreported loans . 
Reported loans were converted into long-term loans with a three-year grace period and a five-year repayment period . 
The interest rate was set at 1.35 percent per month -LRB- 16.2 percent per year -RRB- , which was far below the curb market rate of 3.5 percent per month -LRB- 42.0 percent per year -RRB- . 
The reported aggregate amount of loans was equivalent to roughly 90 percent of M1 . 
Table 2-5 summarizes the main components of the August 3rd Measure . 
The effect of the August 3rd Measure , if any , was short-lived . 
After a brief contraction , the curb market grew again and generated another crisis in the money market in the 1980s . 
In fact , the existence of the curb market is inevitable under interest rate controls and directed credits . 
The size of curb market depends on -LRB- 1 -RRB- the level of regulated interest rates , -LRB- 2 -RRB- the size of funding demand , and -LRB- 3 -RRB- the efficiency of financial intermediation . 
First , the lower the regulated interest rate is , the larger is the curb market . 
Those who hope to reap a higher rate of return will supply Those who hope to reap a higher rate of return savings to the curb market . 
Official interest rates remained at very low levels from the 1950s to the early 1990s -LRB- Figure 2-9 -RRB- . 
The real rate on export credits averaged -10 percent in the 1960s and 1970s , and the real NIF lending rate was negative in 1974-1981 . 
The general lending rate was also very low . 
Second , the larger the credit demand is , the larger is the curb market . 
The high debt-to - equity ratio of 300-400 percent after the 1970s indicates that credit demand was very large . 
One reason can be found in the frequent interventions by the government to restructure private businesses . 
The first instance was the restructuring done by the Taskforce to Restructure Insolvent Firms that began the Taskforce work in May 1969 on 30 firms with foreign debts and 56 firms managed by banks . 
The Taskforce finalized a restructuring plan in August 1969 . 
The plan aimed -LRB- 1 -RRB- to save all banks that had provided loans or guarantees to insolvent firms , -LRB- 2 -RRB- to clean up the balance sheets of firms burdened with foreign debt , and -LRB- 3 -RRB- to force owners of insolvent firms to sell owners of insolvent firms personal property -LRB- Chung-yum Kim , 2006 , p. 308 -RRB- . 
Similar interventions were tried again and again in the 1970s and 1980s , 25 and strengthened the expectation that the government would always come to the rescue when times got tough for businesses . 
This expectation was dispelled only after the economic crisis of 1997 as the sudden fall of the debt-to-equity ratio indicates -LRB- Figure 2-7 -RRB- . 
Third , the more inefficient the financial intermediation is , the larger is the curb market . 
If credits are directed by the government mostly toward unprofitable investments , then those investments excluded from directed credits , but sufficiently profitable , would seek funding in the curb market . 
Estimates on the size of directed credits in the 1970s range from 40 percent to 60 percent of domestic credits -LRB- Pyung-joo Kim and Yung-chul Park , 1984 , p. 354 ; Un-chan Chung , 1986 , p. 210 ; Il SaKong , 1993 , p. 35 ; Joon-kyung Kim , 1993 , p. 316 ; OECD , 1996 , p. 45 -RRB- . 
Inefficiency would have been unavoidable when the size of the directed credits was that large . 
The August 3rd Measure was a failed attempt by the government to put under The August 3rd Measure control not only foreign borrowing and the organized financial markets , but also the unorganized ones . 
A better way to eradicate the curb market would have been -LRB- 1 -RRB- assuring positive real returns in organized markets by liberalizing interest rates and stabilizing price inflation , -LRB- 2 -RRB- denouncing implicit guarantees to private businesses , and -LRB- 3 -RRB- discontinuing directed credits . 
26 These were tantamount to giving up financial repression . 
3 . 
6 Macroeconomic stability 
The primary role of the monetary authorities during the government-led growth period lay in supplying `` growth money , '' and price stabilization received a far lower priority . 
Banks never had enough money to satisfy the voracious demand for credit from businesses , and had to rely on central bank lending -LRB- Pyung-joo Kim , 1995 , p. 219 ; Joon - kyung Kim , 1993 , p. 138 -RRB- . 
In 1968 , the government abolished the ceiling on the central bank rediscount facility and entitled banks to an automatic rediscount of a fixed proportion of banks directed credits . 
Consequently , the share of central bank lending in total deposit money bank -LRB- DMB -RRB- credits reached 10-20 percent in 1965-1993 , and the share of central bank lending in total deposit money bank -LRB- DMB -RRB- share in total directed credits 30-40 percent -LRB- Table 2-6 -RRB- . 
The share was especially high in the case of export credits ; banks relied for 89 percent of banks export credits on central bank lending in 1973-1981 . 
Central bank lending was the major source of reserve base growth -LRB- Table 2-7 -RRB- . 
In 1973 - 1981 , the reserve base grew by 25.1 percent annually , of which 20.2 percent came from lending to DMBs . 
Such a rapid growth in the reserve base inevitably led to high inflation . 
Consumer price inflation soared to 10-20 percent in the 1960s and 1970s , far higher than in Japan , Taiwan or Singapore -LRB- Table 2-8 -RRB- . 
In the 1960s and 1970s , the government tried to contract the money supply from time to time to contain inflation . 
Except for a few years -LRB- 1963-1964 , 1970-1971 -RRB- , however , money supply continued to grow rapidly and the budget deficit remained large due to the `` growth-first '' '' policy at the time -LRB- Tae-seong Jeong , 1986 , p. 969 -RRB- . 
Instead of macroeconomic tools , the government relied heavily on price controls . 
Price controls had been imposed intermittently in the 1940s and 1950s without much success . 
In November 1961 , a legal basis for price controls was prepared with the introduction of the Act on Temporary Measures for Price Controls . 
Price controls in accordance with the Act continued until 1971 -LRB- Jae Hyung Lee , 2005 , p. 439 ; Seong-sang Park , 1986 , p. 939 ; Economic Planning Board , 1982 , pp.52-53 -RRB- . 
The government considerably strengthened price controls in the 1970s . 
In March 1973 , amid escalating inflation fueled by devaluation and sky-rocketing international commodity prices , it put in place the Price Stabilization Act to replace the previous Act on Temporary Measures . 
The new Act extended the coverage of regulation from the price of goods to the price of services , including rent , fees and user charges . 
Inflation came down temporarily , but intensified again in 1974 due to rising oil prices . 
The government continued price controls but had to allow occasional upward adjustments in prices . 
The government also revised the Price Stabilization Act into the Act on Price Stabilization and Fair Trade in 1975 . 
The new Act brought in wide-ranging regulations , including those on monopolistic and oligopolistic pricing . 
In addition , competition policy -LRB- i.e. , regulations on anti-competitive behavior and unfair trading -RRB- was included in the Act in the belief that a fundamental cure for inflation lay in installing a competitive market structure . 
But the Act served mainly to implement price controls and did not play a significant role in promoting competition -LRB- Jae Hyung Lee , 2005 , pp.439-440 -RRB- . 
The Act enabled the government to intervene directly in the entire process of production , distribution and consumption , to set `` standard prices , '' and to influence the pricing in monopolistic and oligopolistic markets . 
Not supported by monetary and fiscal adjustments , however , price controls failed to stabilize inflation . 
price controls delayed but could not prevent eventual price increases , generating public distrust of government policies and boosting inflationary expectations . 
Producers diverted Producers sales to overseas markets to avoid the price controls , which amplified domestic inflationary pressure and enlarged the black market . 
In return , the government had to intervene further in the market by imposing production quotas and export caps on enterprises -LRB- Tae-seong Jeong , 1986 , p. 970 -RRB- . 
The government began to reduce price controls in the 1980s . 
The Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Act was introduced in 1980 as the first fully-fledged competition law . 
Competition policy was transferred to the new Act from the Act on Price Stabilization and Fair Trade . 
Some price regulations remained , but were finally abolished in February 1994 . 
3 . 
7 Labor market policies 
During the colonial period , the labor movement also represented a political movement against the Japanese occupation -LRB- Sookon Kim and Ju-Ho Lee , 1995 -RRB- . 
Many workers considered Many workers employers , mostly from Japan , not as partners for mutual prosperity , but as adversaries to defeat . 
This characteristic carried over into the 1960s-1980s when the adversaries were no longer Japanese employers but domestic authoritarian rulers . 
After the liberation , many labor unions were organized with a strong political bias -LRB- right or left -RRB- and fought each other . 
The government enacted basic labor laws during the Korean War that focused on protecting workers and were quite progressive in nature . 
workers purpose was to win favor with the workers in the midst of the struggle with communism . 
But given the lack of government 's administrative capacity and the scarcity of profitable businesses at the time , labor laws did not have much real meaning . 
The gap between laws and reality became commonplace after that . 
Labor unions , highly politicized and engrossed in infighting , continued to form and disband along political lines . 
The Federation of Korean Trade Unions -LRB- FKTU -RRB- was formed in November 1960 , but made little difference . 
In 1961 , the military government suspended labor laws , dissolved the FKTU , and converted company-level unions into fifteen industry - level unions . 
In 1962 , The Federation of Korean Trade Unions -LRB- FKTU -RRB- also placed restrictions on civil servants ' three basic labor rights -LRB- i.e. , rights to organize , bargain collectively , and strike -RRB- . 
The government further weakened labor unions by prohibiting multiple unions within a firm , reinforcing the ban on political involvement by labor unions , and allowing employers to escape from punishment for unfair labor practices if employers corrected employers afterwards . 
In return , the government expanded statutory benefits and protection for workers , including weekly and annual paid leave , severance payments , and limited work hours . 
The 1970s witnessed the increasing oppression of the labor movement . 
In December 1972 , the government declared a state of emergency and promulgated the Act on Special Measures on National Security . 
Collective bargaining as well as strikes was now subject to mediation by the authorities . 
Moreover , the revised Constitution of 1973 -LRB- the Yushin Constitution -RRB- stipulated that the workers ' three basic rights could be limited or denied by law . 
The labor movement turned more violent and more politically charged , especially after an incident in November 1970 in which a worker in a sweatshop set a worker in a sweatshop on fire in protest at government policies . 
The suppression of the labor movement continued in the 1980s . 
The Chun Doo-hwan administration , installed in 1981 , amended the Constitution with additional restrictions on collective action . 
The Labor Union Act was revised to restrict the workers ' right to organize by prohibiting union shops and industry-level unions , and requiring a minimum number of votes from workers to form a labor union in a firm . 
The intervention of third parties was also outlawed . 
Furthermore , the Labor Dispute Adjudication Act was revised to prohibit workers from demonstrating outside workers workplaces . 
This prohibition actually inflicted larger losses on firms as striking workers occupied workplaces instead and disrupted production lines . 
On June 29 , 1987 , Roh Tae-woo , the presidential candidate of the ruling party , made a public pledge to expand civil rights and revive democracy if Roh Tae-woo , the presidential candidate of the ruling party , won the election . 
This resulted in an outbreak of labor disputes . 
There were about 3,500 labor disputes in July and August alone and 3,749 in total during the year , a huge jump from 289 in 1986 . 
The issue was about wage increases in most cases , but the real issue was often about organizing a new labor union if there had been none or dismantling the existing company - controlled union . 
In November , laws were revised and restrictions on the workers ' right to organize were partly eased . 
Labor disputes subsided in following years -LRB- 1,878 in 1988 , 1,616 in 1989 , and 322 in 1990 -RRB- . 
To summarize , the oppressive labor market policies in the 1960s through 1980s contributed to high economic growth and rapid job creation , but at the same time produced political instability and hampered social integration . 
The legacy of violent labor movement still remains . 
4 . 
Stabilization and liberalization -LRB- from the 1980s to the Crisis of 1997 -RRB- 
At the turn of the 1980s , the government attempted a drastic change in policy directions . 
A `` growth-first '' strategy was replaced by `` consolidating growth on the basis of stability . '' 
`` Private sector-led '' rather than `` government-led '' growth was emphasized . 
In particular , price stabilization was pursued with contractionary policies , banks were privatized , and competition policy was strengthened . 
These attempts , however , were only half successful in redefining the respective roles of government and the private sector . 
4 . 
1 Macroeconomic stabilization 
The giddy output growth of 9 percent in the 1970s was accompanied by macroeconomic imbalances -LRB- Kwang Suk Kim and Joon-kyung Kim , 1995 , p. 66 -RRB- . 
Excess demand created by the HCI drive , the Middle East construction boom and fiscal deficits , combined with the first and second oil shocks , produced a rapid escalation in inflation . 
A delay in devaluation 28 amid high inflation led to the overvaluation of won and the loss of price competitiveness of Korean exports . 
Exports shrank in 1979 for the first time since the early 1960s . 
Output growth turned negative in 1980 due to a crop failure and political instability following the assassination of President Park . 
The need for change was initially brought up within Park 's administration . 
Since early 1978 , the staff of the Economic Planning Board -LRB- EPB -RRB- , together with economists at the Korea Development Institute -LRB- KDI -RRB- , studied the problems affecting the Korean economy and made strenuous efforts to persuade the president to adopt a stabilization program -LRB- Heung-ki Kim , 1999 , p. 276 -RRB- . 
The result was the Comprehensive Economic Stabilization Program announced in April 1979 . 
The Program touched on the most sacred parts of the administration ' policy agenda , and proposed reducing export subsidies , moderating HCI investments , and scaling back the rural housing improvement program . 
The Program also proposed liberalizing prices and interest rates , which was unthinkable at the time . 
It encountered fierce opposition from other ministries and the president himself ordered the continuation of export subsidies . 
Nonetheless , stabilization came to take center stage in economic policy , and the successor administration of Chun Doo-hwan adopted `` stability '' and `` private sector-led growth '' as the successor administration of Chun Doo-hwan slogan . 
These changes were reflected in the fifth Five-Year Plan -LRB- 1982-1986 -RRB- . 
29 
Stabilization was pursued with monetary and fiscal contractions . 
The annual M2 growth declined from 35 percent in 1975-1982 to 20 percent in 1983-1985 -LRB- Table 2-9 -RRB- . 
But the decline was mostly a passive response to the slowdown in inflation ; the real growth rate actually rose slightly from 13 to 14 percent . 
What contributed more to price stabilization was moderation in rice price increases and active fiscal consolidation . 
In 1981 , the rice price paid by the government to farmers was set at 14 percent above the previous year 's price , far below the level demanded by the opposition party -LRB- 45.6 percent -RRB- or the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries -LRB- at least 24 percent -RRB- . 
The incident demonstrated the government 's commitment to stabilization -LRB- Heung-ki Kim , 1999 , p. 289 ; Economic Planning Board , 1994 , p. 109 -RRB- . 
In 1982 , the government introduced zero-based budgeting -LRB- ZBB -RRB- 30 and cut the budget that was already being implemented . 
In addition , the 1983 budget was prepared with great restraint ; the central government 's consolidated spending decreased by 2.7 percent in real terms in 1983 -LRB- Table 2-9 -RRB- . 
Fiscal consolidation continued through 1986 and successfully curbed spending growth . 
The fiscal balance improved markedly ; a deficit of -4.3 percent of GDP in 1981 turned into a surplus of 0.2 percent in 1987 . 
Fiscal consolidation , together with the stabilization of oil prices , helped consumer price inflation to drop from over 20 percent in 1981 to under 5 percent in 1983 . 
Inflation has remained below 10 percent ever since . 
Fiscal consolidation also set public finances on a sustainable path . 
From the mid-1980s onward , the fiscal balance maintained a roughly stable position -LRB- Figure 2-10 -RRB- . 
Central government debt continued to decline and reached a very low level before the crisis -LRB- 8 percent of GDP in 1996 -RRB- , which enabled the Korean government to address the 1997 financial crisis aggressively -LRB- Figure 2-11 -RRB- . 
Fiscal consolidation , however , entailed costs in terms of lost output and increased unemployment . 
The unemployment rate jumped from 3.8 percent in 1979 to 5.2 percent in 1980 , and then stayed at 4.0-4.5 percent before falling to 3.1 percent in 1987 and 2.5 percent in 1988 -LRB- Table 2-9 -RRB- . 
Fiscal consolidation appears to have prolonged the recession that began in 1980 . 
As mentioned above , monetary policy did not make a meaningful contribution to price stabilization . 
This was because of the continued existence of directed credits . 
The outstanding stock of central bank lending to DMBs exceeded 100 percent of the reserve base in 1981 and 200 percent in 1985 , forcing the BOK to sell Monetary Stabilization Bonds -LRB- MSBs -RRB- to sterilize the increased reserves -LRB- Figure 2-12 -RRB- . 
This indicates that gearing monetary policy toward stabilization faced a fundamental difficulty as long as directed credits were continued . 
Another source of difficulty for the BOK was the increase in net foreign assets -LRB- NFAs -RRB- . 
The latter increased to 87 percent of the reserve base at the end of 1988 -LRB- Figure 2-13 -RRB- . 
A large part of the current account surplus during the `` three-low period '' -LRB- 1986-1988 -RRB- was used to pay back foreign debts , and the rest showed up as increased NFAs on the BOK 's balance sheet . 
The government delayed exchange rate adjustment in order to sustain exports and encourage business investment , and started to revalue the won as late as 1988 . 
Japan and Taiwan , on the other hand , began Japan and Taiwan revaluation in September 1985 after the Plaza Accord was signed . 
The delay in revaluation is believed to have hampered efforts by businesses to enhance businesses competitiveness , retarded the restructuring of domestic industries , increased the stock of MSBs , and encouraged real estate speculation -LRB- Heung-ki Kim , 1999 , p. 344 ; Economic Planning Board , 1994 , p. 25 -RRB- . 
As Figures 2-12 and 2-13 indicate , MSBs played a very important role in controlling money supply . 
In addition to MSBs , the BOK employed reserve requirement ratios and regulations on bank lending , but was not very successful in restraining money supply growth within annual targets . 
Out of 18 years between 1979 and 1996 , targets were exceeded in 12 years . 
The large amount of interest payments on MSBs added to the money supply and caused the BOK big losses . 
The BOK wanted to minimize losses by forcing banks to buy MSBs at an interest rate below the market rate , banks gap reaching 3 percentage points at one point -LRB- OECD , 1994 , p. 113 -RRB- . 
This arrangement was discontinued in February 1997 with the introduction of a fully competitive auction system . 
4 . 
2 HCI investment coordination and industrial rationalization 
Toward the end of the 1970s , increasing overcapacity and worsening profitably in HCIs posed serious challenges to policymakers . 
The government initiated three rounds of `` investment coordination '' in 1979 and 1980 and completed `` investment coordination '' in 1979 and 1980 by 1983 . 
The first round , started in May 1979 following the Comprehensive Economic Stabilization Program , was delayed during the change in governments and then resumed in August 1980 by the new administration . 
The government declared the investment coordination of nine companies in three industries -LRB- power generation , automobile and construction machinery -RRB- . 
In October , the second round of restructuring was imposed on three more industries -LRB- heavy electrical instruments , electronic switchboard and copper smelting -RRB- . 
The restructuring continued in the 1980s with some modifications -LRB- Choong Yong Ahn and Joo-Hoon Kim , 1995 , p. 333 ; Economic Planning Board , 1994 , pp.151-152 -RRB- . 
The government provided rescue packages , including loans from state-controlled banks , to troubled companies being restructured . 
Despite government-led restructuring , HCIs continued to have difficulties up to the mid - 1980s . 
The restructuring also accelerated the concentration of economic power and strengthened the monopolistic market structure . 
Most importantly , The restructuring failed to eliminate excess capacity , and `` industrial rationalization '' became necessary in the mid-1980s . 
In 1985 , to carry out rationalization in a systematic way , the government revised the Tax Reduction and Exemption Regulation Act -LRB- TRERA -RRB- , abolished the promotion laws for individual industries , and introduced the Manufacturing Development Act -LRB- MDA -RRB- . 
TRERA provided various tax benefits -LRB- such as the exemption from capital gains taxes -RRB- to companies subject to rationalization , and MDA enabled the government to regulate market entry and investment in rationalized industries . 
Rationalization based on TRERA was carried out in many industries . 
Before 1985 , Rationalization based on TRERA covered not only HCIs such as fertilizer , heavy machinery , power generator manufacturing and LPG importing , but also the shipping industry , which faced serious difficulties in the early 1980s . 
After 1985 , the rationalization of power generator manufacturing and shipping industries continued , while overseas construction , coal mining and shipbuilding industries were added to the list . 
At the same time , the government restructured 78 troubled companies in 1986 and 1988 in five rounds -LRB- Joon-kyung Kim , 1991 , p. 46 -RRB- . 
Rationalization based on MDA began in seven industries -LRB- automobile , construction machinery , diesel engine , electrical instrument , alloyed metal , textiles and dyeing -RRB- in July 1986 . 
Fertilizer -LRB- December 1987 -RRB- and footwear -LRB- February 1992 -RRB- were added later . 
In these industries , new market entry was restricted during the rationalization period and financial support was given to existing companies . 
Most of the rationalization was completed by 1988-1990 . 
Investment coordination and industrial rationalization depended on strong anti- competitive measures such as creating monopolies and banning new market entries . 
Table 2-10 illustrates the case of automobile manufacturing . 
The government also provided financial support and tax benefits . 
For the insolvent firms restructured in 1986-1988 , all liabilities in excess of assets were to be eliminated . 
Debts of 986.3 billion won were written off , the repayment of another 1,640.6 billion won was postponed , and interest payments on 4,194.7 billion won were either postponed or reduced . 
New long-term lending of 460.8 billion won was also provided at a low interest rate . 
Furthermore , companies received total tax benefits of 241.4 billion won . 
To compensate for the losses incurred by commercial banks , the BOK granted to six banks special loans of 1,722.1 billion won -LRB- 299.9 billion won in 1985 , 684.4 billion won in 1986 and 773.8 billion won in 1987 -RRB- at an interest rate of three percent -LRB- Joon-kyung Kim , 1991 , p. 47 -RRB- . 
This amount was equivalent to 53.5 percent of the net increase in the reserve base between 1984 and 1987 . 
One may argue that the government had to initiate restructuring because the government was responsible for the failure of companies that participated in the HCI drive . 
This explanation is incomplete , however , because the government also tried to rescue companies in such industries as shipping , overseas construction and textiles that were not part of the HCI drive . 
A more important reason for government intervention must have been the fear that a corporate and banking sector breakdown 31 would generate an economic crisis . 
The intervention succeeded in averting a crisis in the short term by propping up failed companies , but hampered long-term stability by dodging painful restructuring and increasing moral hazard in the corporate and banking sector . 
The risk partnership between the state and the private sector was strengthened in the 1980s . 
Private sector-led growth as emphasized by the government did not materialize . 
If the government had let insolvent firms fail in the 1980s , the growth of corporate debts and non-performing loans held by banks after that would have been much smaller and the impact of the 1997 crisis much milder . 
It should also be noted that the chaebol increased the chaebol size in the process of restructuring and rationalization . 
4 . 
3 Financial liberalization 
Financial liberalization proceeded very slowly in the 1980s and early 1990s . 
In the early 1980s , the real interest rate turned positive as inflation stabilized , providing a favorable environment for interest rate reform . 
The large amount of corporate debt , however , precluded active liberalization because even a slight rise in interest rates would increase interest payments substantially . 
A partial liberalization was tried in 1984 and 1986 without noticeable impact . 
A more ambitious plan was announced in December 1988 , but revoked in early 1989 when the interest rate jumped due to price instability . 
The next round of interest rate reform was embodied in the Four-Stage Interest Rate Liberalization Plan announced in August 1991 . 
The Plan proposed liberalization to move from long-term to short-term interest rates , from securities market rates to bank interest rates , and from large-sum to small-sum instruments . 
The actual liberalization , however , was not guided by this principle . 
Full implementation was also delayed for years ; liberalization began officially in the latter half of 1991 but was completed only in 1996-1997 -LRB- Yoon Je Cho , 2003 , pp.85-86 ; OECD , 1996 , p. 48 -RRB- . 
Directed credits also continued . 
In 1982 , the government consolidated the less important credit programs into a general credit program and reduced interest subsidies significantly . 
But at the same time , the government expanded credit programs for small - and medium-sized enterprises -LRB- SMEs -RRB- . 
The minimum share of SMEs in banks ' lending portfolio was raised in 1980 , and this regulation was extended to non-bank financial institutions -LRB- NBFIs -RRB- in 1985 . 
The BOK began to provide a rediscount facility in 1983 to various types of SME loans by DMBs , and strengthened support in the mid-1980s and thereafter . 
As a result , the total amount of directed credits decreased very slowly -LRB- Joon-kyung Kim , 1993 , pp.131-134 -RRB- . 
The BOK 's involvement in directed credits was not limited to SME support . 
As explained above , the BOK supplied 1,722.1 billion won of cash to banks during the industrial rationalization in 1985-1987 . 
The BOK 's also released 250.0 billion won to agricultural , fisheries and livestock cooperatives in 1987 as part of a debt-relief program for farmers and fishermen . 
In 1992 , three investment trust companies received 2,900.0 billion won from the BOK . 
These companies had been ordered by the government to buy stocks to support the collapsing market . 
The attempt failed and three investment trust companies incurred enormous losses , which the government tried to make up for through BOK lending -LRB- Pyung-joo Kim , 1995 -RRB- . 
Criticism of BOK lending grew . 
In response , the government set out to streamline BOK lending programs and reduce the government size in 1994 -LRB- Table 2-11 -RRB- . 
Of particular importance were the abolition of automatic rediscounting and the consolidation of various programs into a unified lending program with a global ceiling on the government total amount of lending . 
The ceiling was to be determined ex ante . 
This arrangement allowed greater room for maneuver for the BOK -LRB- Bank of Korea , 2005b , p. 97 -RRB- . 
There was a wave of privatization of commercial banks in the early 1980s . 
In addition to the one that had been already privatized in 1973 , four others were privatized between 1981 and 1983 . 
32 Government intervention continued , however , in the operation of the privatized banks , such as management appointments , asset management and organizational changes . 
Government influence on the nomination of bank presidents was abolished officially in 1993 , but political influence remained -LRB- OECD , 1996 , p. 43 ; Yoon Je Cho , 2003 , p. 94 -RRB- . 
The 1980s and early 1990s also witnessed the entry -LRB- and sometimes exit -RRB- of many banks and NBFIs . 
Forerunners of NBFIs included finance companies 33 and merchant banking corporations -LRB- MBCs -RRB- 34 that had been in place since the 1970s . 
A host of other NBFIs such as mutual savings banks , life insurance companies , investment trust companies , securities companies , investment advisory companies , venture capital companies and lease companies also sprang up . 
NBFIs were subjected to lighter regulations than banks because banks had been created in the first place to siphon off funds from unorganized financial markets into organized ones . 
banks lending and deposit rates were higher than bank rates , restrictions on asset portfolio were fewer , market entry was easier , and directed credit was not an obligation . 
In particular , many chaebol acquired control over NBFIs and lobbied , often successfully , for further deregulation . 
These enabled NBFIs to grow rapidly in the 1980s -LRB- Yoon Je Cho , 2003 , p. 94 -RRB- . 
Banks lost Banks market share to NBFIs continuously until the mid-1980s . 
Recognizing the disadvantages faced by banks , the government allowed banks to undertake trust business through special accounts `` trust -LRB- accounts '' -RRB- classed with non-bank intermediaries . 
Trust accounts grew rapidly in volume afterwards , and Trust accounts share in total domestic liabilities of DMBs rose from 5 percent in 1984 to over 40 percent in 1993 -LRB- OECD , 1994 , pp.102-103 -RRB- . 
In 1993 , the government liberalized the interest rate on commercial papers -LRB- CPs -RRB- and permitted bank trust accounts to be invested in CPs . 
In addition , the ceiling on the share of securities in the asset portfolios of trust accounts was also raised from 40 to 60 percent . 
These changes led to a very rapid expansion of the CP market . 
The share of CPs in total corporate financing rose from 2.5 percent in 1990-1992 to 13.1 percent in 1993-1996 , and peaked at 17.5 percent in 1997 . 
Companies preferred CPs to bank credits because banks normally required detailed project plans before making loans to large projects whereas the underwriters of CPs did not require such plans as long as companies received an eligible rating from credit rating agencies -LRB- Yoon Je Cho , 2003 , p. 96 -RRB- . 
The constant creation , conversion , merger and diversification of banks and NBFIs was a desirable phenomenon from the perspective of financial liberalization . 
The instability of the financial system , however , increased with liberalization as prudential regulation was not strengthened simultaneously . 
The problems with prudential regulation at the time can be summarized as follows . 
First , the amount of loans that were not subject to prudential regulation grew as the CP market and the bank trust accounts expanded . 
For instance , bank loans from the general account were subject to a regulation that limited the amount of loans to a single borrower , whereas the same loans from the trust account was not subject to a similar regulation -LRB- Yoon Je Cho , 2003 , p. 87 -RRB- . 
Second , regulatory standards remained outdated . 
Before the 1997 crisis , the prudential regulation of banks was based on the Management Improvement Measure , something similar to the prompt corrective action adopted after the crisis . 
The Measure , however , had many weaknesses ; the criteria to identify problem banks were complicated ; the conditions to take corrective actions were neither objective nor transparent ; it was left to the authorities ' discretion whether to take action or not ; and the authorities could not close down troubled banks -LRB- Won-hyeong Choi , 1996 -RRB- . 
As for NBFIs , supervision was practically non-existent due to the absence of a regulatory framework -LRB- such as a capital adequacy ratio -RRB- and insufficient regulatory efforts by the MOF . 
Some MBCs were even found after the crisis to have engaged in fraudulent operations -LRB- Inseok Shin and Joon-Ho Hahm , 1998 , p. 28 -RRB- . 
Third , various authorities were involved in prudential regulation , creating overlaps and gaps in supervision . 
The Office of Bank Supervision -LRB- OBS -RRB- within the BOK was in charge of the banking sector , and the Ministry of Finance -LRB- MOF -RRB- most of the NBFI sectors . 
Within the banking sector , general accounts were supervised by the OBS , whereas trust accounts by the MOF . 
The BOK was concerned mostly with the banks ' compliance with a list of credit allocation guidelines set by the government and less with the assessment of troubled banks -LRB- Won-hyeong Choi , 1996 -RRB- risk exposure and the prevention of excess risk-taking . 
The MOF did not have the manpower and expertise to carry out proper supervision of financial institutions -LRB- Yoon Je Cho , 2003 , p. 95 -RRB- . 
Fourth , the authorities did not pay sufficient attention to the strengthening of the financial market infrastructure necessary for the sound operation of a market-based financial system . 
Accounting and disclosure standards remained unchanged , and the credit rating capacity was not enhanced -LRB- Yoon Je Cho , 2003 , p. 96 -RRB- . 
To summarize , financial market became increasingly liberalized in the 1980s and early 1990s , especially as many chaebol , as owners of NBFIs , demanded deregulation . 
The liberalization , however , lacked a clear orientation and was not accompanied by a concurrent strengthening of prudential regulation . 
A fundamental reform was delayed because politicians and bureaucrats were not ready to bear the short-term costs . 
Enforcing prudential regulation would have required the restructuring of many businesses and financial institutions . 
35 This would have helped clarify the respective responsibilities of the state , businesses and financial institutions and dismantle the risk partnerships among businesses , but no effort was made in this direction . 
Phillip Wonhyuk Lim -LRB- 2001 , p. 15 -RRB- portrays the situation as `` de-control without de-protection , '' with the state giving up directing the economy while still willing to insure risks . 
A well-planned action by the government to `` de-protect '' the corporate and financial sector would have made the crisis of 1997 significantly less painful , if not preventing the crisis of 1997 . 
4 . 
4 Market opening 
The import liberalization announced in 1978 was stalled in 1979-1980 due to the second oil shock , but resumed afterwards and gathered speed in 1984 as the external imbalance disappeared . 
The current account turned to a surplus in 1986 for the first time and the surplus increased in size in the following years . 
In 1989 , the government began to reduce quantitative restrictions amid intensifying trade conflict with America . 
In January 1990 , Korea moved into the status of a GATT Article XI nation because of the surpluses , and could no longer impose trade restrictions for balance-of-payment purposes as the government had done before . 
All in all , the average statutory tariff declined from 34.4 to 9.8 percent between 1981 and 1995 , while the import liberalization from quantitative restrictions rose from 60.7 to 92.0 percent -LRB- Kwang Suk Kim , 2001 , p. 82 -RRB- . 
The primary goal of import liberalization did not lie in improving consumer welfare , but in enhancing the competitiveness of domestic industries by exposing consumer welfare to international competition -LRB- Choong Yong Ahn and Joo-Hoon Kim , 1995 , p. 342 -RRB- . 
The balance of payments was also an important consideration , one example of which was the stalled liberalization in 1979-1980 . 
Another example was the import diversification system -LRB- 1977 - 1999 -RRB- , brought in to reduce trade deficits with Japan by banning imports of certain items -LRB- 924 in 1981 -RRB- . 
Nonetheless , by the mid-1990s , Korea achieved a level of liberalization comparable to those in the OECD area -LRB- OECD , 1994 , p. 64 -RRB- . 
Protection of agriculture , however , did not diminish in importance . 
Capital market opening lagged significantly behind trade liberalization . 
A major concern was the control over domestic money supply and the real exchange rate movement . 
Restrictions were strengthened on capital outflows in the late 1970s and early 1980s when the current account showed large deficits -LRB- OECD , 1996 , pp.51-55 -RRB- . 
The government took an opposite position in the latter half of the 1980s when the current account moved into considerable surplus , relaxing restrictions on outward FDI while tightening the enforcement of regulations concerning the use of import credit and commercial bank loans . 
The public sector stopped borrowing from abroad and started to repay foreign debts . 
Then in 1990-1993 , the government began liberalizing long-term capital inflows as the current account returned to deficits . 
In January 1992 , the stock market was opened to foreigners , who could now invest in listed firms up to a certain limit . 
Despite sporadic episodes of liberalization , the domestic capital market had been largely closed to foreigners up to the early 1990s . 
There were restrictions on 89 percent of the items in the OECD code for capital account liberalization in 1992 , far above the OECD average of 17 percent -LRB- OECD , 1994 , p. 118 -RRB- . 
A more serious effort began with the Three - Stage Financial Liberalization and Market-Opening Plan announced in June 1993 . 
Market-Opening Plan was part of a strategy to join the OECD and accelerate the globalization of the Korean economy . 
The Plan was followed by the Foreign Exchange System Reform Plan -LRB- December 1994 -RRB- and the Revised Foreign Exchange System Reform Plan -LRB- December 1995 -RRB- . 
Still , capital market opening before the 1997 crisis was passive in nature , and liberalization plans followed a positive-list approach -LRB- OECD , 1996 , p. 62 ; Moon-Soo Kang , Buhmsoo Choi and Dongmin Nah , 1996 , p. 54 -RRB- . 
Choongsoo Kim and Inseok Shin -LRB- 2003 -RRB- define the capital market liberalization before the crisis as bank-centered . 
The government liberalized trade-related financing of firms and the short-term foreign currency borrowing of banks , but delayed the liberalization of other types of capital flows . 
The government 's allowed banks greater freedom to engage in overseas activities on the assumption that the traditional modus operandi was enough to monitor and control system stability . 
Indeed , banks had been used extensively in regulating money supply -LRB- with the BOK directly controlling bank credits and selling MSBs to banks to absorb excess liquidity -RRB- and propping up troubled companies -LRB- as in the case of industrial rationalization in the mid-1980s -RRB- . 
The government 's reasoning was founded on the apparent success of such policies in stabilizing the economy . 
In the mid-1990s , the government substantially reduced regulations on overseas activities by banks and NBFIs . 
the government believed that liberalization would not hamper domestic macroeconomic stability and might help improve the international competitiveness of domestic financial institutions -LRB- Choongsoo Kim and Inseok Shin , 2003 , p. 24 -RRB- . 
In 1994 - 1996 , as many as 24 finance companies were converted into MBCs and embarked on foreign excursions , and domestic banks opened a total of 28 overseas branches . 
as many as 24 finance companies borrowing surged as the investment-led boom generated a strong demand for low-cost capital . 
as many as 24 finance companies relied on short-term rather than long-term borrowing to meet these demands because of the strict regulation on long-term borrowing . 
Short-term borrowing by banks was boosted further by a deregulation move that lowered the minimum share of long-term liability in banks debt portfolio from 60 to 40 percent -LRB- Yoon Je Cho , 2003 , pp.89-90 -RRB- . 
The mismatch between foreign currency assets and liabilities was posing a grave threat not only to individual financial institutions but also to the whole economy , but the government did not strengthen the necessary supervision . 
As in the case of domestic financial liberalization , capital market opening was not accompanied by a commensurate augmentation of prudential regulation . 
The OBS drew up a guideline on foreign currency liquidity ratios for banks as late as June 1997 . 
The MOF did not establish a guideline of any sort for NBFIs before the economic crisis -LRB- Inseok Shin and Joon-Ho Hahm , 1998 , pp. 27 - 28 -RRB- . 
The government believed that discretionary intervention through banks would be sufficient to secure macroeconomic stability . 
The economic crisis of 1997 proved belatedly that this belief was seriously wrong . 
4 . 
5 Competition policy and chaebol policy 
As explained above , wide-ranging intervention by the government in the market continued until the early 1990s . 
In many cases , the entry and exit of businesses was decided not by market forces but by the government . 
In the meantime , the Korean economy grew steadily in size and depth . 
In manufacturing , for example , the real value of shipments increased 5.5 times in two decades between 1975 and 1995 and the number of firms 4.2 times . 
Market competition increased accordingly . 
An important contribution to enhanced market competition was made by the Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Act -LRB- MRFTA -RRB- , which was legislated in 1980 and became effective in 1981 . 
MRFTA banned or restricted the abuse of market-dominant positions , anti- competitive M&A s , undue collaborative activities , unfair business practices , restraints on competition by trade associations , resale price maintenances , and anti-competitive international contracts . 
MRFTA underwent several revisions afterwards and came to incorporate regulations on the chaebol , going beyond the traditional role of a competition law . 
37 The organization in charge of competition policy also underwent changes . 
The Fair Trade Commission -LRB- FTC -RRB- was instituted in 1981 within the EPB , and was then separated from the EPB and became an independent agency in 1994 . 
The Chairman of the Commission was accorded a minister-level position in the government in 1996 . 
Despite many achievements , MRFTA faced basic constraints in carrying out MRFTA mission of competition promotion . 
Competition policy was foreign to many policymakers and did not command wide support from the public . 
The strong tradition of state dominance over the market led many to question whether free and fair competition would help promote industrial development . 
The government continued to intervene extensively in the market in the 1980s and 1990s by setting up entry barriers , initiating industrial rationalization , keeping a large number of state-owned enterprises -LRB- SOEs -RRB- under a large number of state-owned enterprises -LRB- SOEs -RRB- control , and regulating prices . 
Anti-competitive government regulations were common not only in manufacturing but also in the service sector and the SOE sector . 
Very slow progress in deregulation and privatization severely limited the role of competition policy -LRB- Seong Min Yoo , 1997a -RRB- . 
Deregulation began to emerge as an important priority in the late 1980s . 
In 1988 , the new administration designated ten industries － alcoholic beverages , refineries and others － as targets for deregulation and sought to promote competition in these industries . 
Another eight industries － shipping , bus passenger transport and others － were added in the following year . 
The FTC drew up deregulation plans in consultation with the private sector and relevant ministries . 
In 1990 , the Administrative Deregulation Committee was organized within the Prime Minister ' Office to spearhead the government-wide deregulation efforts as part of the Comprehensive Economic Vitalization Program . 
These efforts were inherited and expanded by the Kim Young-sam administration that came into office in 1993 . 
The main goal of regulatory reform , however , changed quickly as the economy dipped into a downturn in 1989 after heady growth in 1986-1988 . 
Rather than a step toward a competitive market structure , deregulation was now proposed as a way to free businesses from red tape and thereby stimulate free businesses investment . 
One example was the Comprehensive Economic Vitalization Program of 1990 mentioned above . 
This change in tenor created considerable confusion and distorted the reform process -LRB- Seong Min Yoo , 1997b -RRB- . 
Concerning economic , social and administrative regulations , the deregulation effort was often focused only on administrative regulations , although economic regulations tended to pose a greater threat to competition . 
Regulatory reform shoud encompass not only deregulation -LRB- abolishing unnecessary and harmful regulations -RRB- , but also better regulation -LRB- improving the cost-effectiveness of necessary regulations -RRB- . 
But the latter was dropped from the equation in Korea . 
Regulatory reform is market-friendly , but not necessarily business-friendly , because the latter makes life more difficult for incumbent firms by exposing incumbent firms to greater competition . 
But talk about `` business-friendly deregulation '' had the potential to lead policymakers to anti-competitive deregulation . 
Privatization , another prerequisite for an effective competition policy , was not pursued with consistency either . 
Privatization in Korea dates back to the 1950s when Japanese properties were sold to the public . 
Later , SOEs in aviation , surface transportation , mining and manufacturing were privatized in 1968 and banks and refineries were privatized in the early 1980s . 
In 1987 , an ambitious plan was announced to privatize large-scale SOEs such as Korea Telecom Corporation , Korea Electrical Power Corporation and Pohang Steel and Iron Corporation . 
The privatization , however , ended up only a partial success . 
Many worried that a large supply of new share issues would overburden the stock market and that economic power would be further concentrated in the chaebol if the latter were to buy the SOEs . 
Managers and workers of SOEs also fiercely opposed privatization . 
In 1993 , the Kim Young-sam administration announced yet another ground-breaking plan to sell all government shares in 58 SOEs out of 133 existing ones , but the implementation encountered the same objections and fell far short of the original plan . 
While competition policy was struggling to take root , regulations on the chaebol multiplied . 
Attempts to halt economic concentration in the chaebol began in 1974 with the introduction of a credit control system , which was not vigorously enforced and soon neglected . 
In 1980 , another set of regulations was announced , but again the implementation was discontinued after a year . 
another set of regulations was in 1987 that the chaebol policy got a fresh start . 
The cross-shareholding regulation was put in place in the revised MRFTA , and the so-called basket control of credit 38 was strengthened . 
Thereafter , these regulations constituted two of the most important chaebol regulations , but the government also employed other regulations on cross-debt guarantees , intra-group transactions , business diversification , and ownership structure . 
Such a vast array of regulations , however , failed to stop the concentration of economic power . 
The share of the largest 100 companies in mining and manufacturing remained at 40-45 percent in terms of shipments and around 20 percent in terms of employment in 1980-1990 with no noticeable signs of decline -LRB- Figure 2-14 -RRB- . 
This is not surprising given the opportunities facing the chaebol at the time . 
The government provided an implicit state guarantee to the chaebol 's expansion based on the `` too-big-to-fail '' principle . 
In fact , the larger a chaebol was , the more it was likely to be saved by the government from bankruptcy . 
Low interest rates also encouraged borrowing by the chaebol to finance the chaebol 's expansion . 
The domestic market was too small for the chaebol to realize economies of scale through specialization , and diversification into various business lines was a natural choice for the chaebol to realize economies of scale through specialization . 
Insufficient foreign competition due to import restrictions assured the success of such diversification . 
Various chaebol regulations addressed the symptoms rather than the root causes of the chaebol problem , and were bound to fail -LRB- Sung Soon Lee and Seong Min Yoo , 1995 , p. 414 -RRB- 
In the meantime , the chaebol increased the chaebol influence in the political as well as economic arena . 
After Korea achieved a peaceful transition from autocracy to democracy in 1988 , the chaebol gradually broke away from state control . 
the chaebol became more vocal and did not hesitate to criticize the government when necessary . 
Given these changes , the government had two alternative choices -LRB- Seong Min Yoo , 1997a , p. 34 -RRB- . 
The first was to stop providing implicit state guarantees and accelerate the transition to a free market economy in which competition and the threat of bankruptcy would discipline the chaebol , and the second was to introduce various ad hoc regulations on competition and the threat of bankruptcy behavior . 
The government chose the second option and failed to tame the chaebol . 
The basic solution rested in dismantling the government-business risk partnershp , reinforcing competition policy , liberalizing interest rates , and opening domestic markets to foreign producers . 
Most of these reforms were launched in earnest only after the 1997 crisis . 
4 . 
6 Rapid growth of government spending 
Once the fiscal balance was restored to a stable position in 1987 , the government began to increase spending rapidly in response to the growing demand for public services . 
As a result , the general government 39 spending rose from 18 percent of GDP in 1987 to 30 percent in 2009 -LRB- Figure 2-15 -RRB- . 
The central government spending showed a similar growth . 
When we classify the government spending by function , the government spending growth was particularly strong in welfare -LRB- Figure 2-16 -RRB- . 
An important factor was the National Health Insurance -LRB- NHI -RRB- , which was first introduced in 1977 to firms with 500 or more employees . 
It subsequently was expanded in stages and came to cover the entire population in 1989 , with a corresponding increase in expenditure -LRB- Table 2-12 -RRB- . 
40 
The government also sought to expand the housing supply . 
The housing supply ratio jumped from 72.4 to 96.2 percent within ten years between 1990 and 2000 -LRB- Table 2-13 -RRB- . 
In addition to welfare spending , the spending on economic affairs grew rapidly in the early 1990s with the launch of many construction projects － roads , subways , dams and water supplies . 
41 Traditionally , economic affairs and education have accounted for about 40 percent of total government spending , with the former taking a slightly larger share than the latter . 
The spending on economic affairs contributed to the fast expansion of economic infrastructure -LRB- Table 2-14 -RRB- , while the spending on education supported the rise in enrollment rates -LRB- Figure 2-17 -RRB- . 
The enrollment rates of primary and secondary education are currently close to 100 percent , and private as well as public schools have depended heavily on the central government funding . 
5 . 
From the economic crisis to the present -LRB- 1997-2009 -RRB- 5 . 
1 The crisis and The crisis causes 
The economic crisis began in November 1997 as international creditors rushed to withdraw international creditors loans to domestic banks . 
The BOK provided emergency lending to banks , but could not meet the escalating demand for foreign currency . 
The foreign exchange reserve was quickly depleted and an explosive devaluation followed . 
Before the outbreak of the crisis , it was difficult to spot abnormalities in major macroeconomic indicators -LRB- Table 2-15 -RRB- . 
Output growth , money supply , interest rate , inflation , exchange rate and fiscal balance were all at Output growth , money supply , interest rate , inflation , exchange rate and fiscal balance trend levels . 
The only signs of instability came from the external sector . 
The current account deficit surged to 4.0 percent of GDP in 1996 due to the terms-of-trade shock generated by plummeting semiconductor prices . 
Total external liabilities increased by 27 percent per year between 1992 and 1996 to reach 163.3 billion dollars . 
Of particular importance was the increase in short-term external liabilities that corresponded to 280 percent of the foreign exchange reserve in 1996 . 
Most of the increase could be explained by foreign currency borrowing by financial institutions . 
Given the poor risk management , financial institutions became increasingly vulnerable to external shocks . 
The insufficiency of data makes The insufficiency of data difficult to gauge the depth of the problem , but Hahm and Mishkin -LRB- 2000 -RRB- estimate that non-performing loans in 1996 made up 22 percent of the total financial credit to the corporate sector . 
This reflected the low profitability of businesses -LRB- Table 2-16 -RRB- . 
The largest 30 chaebol recorded an average return on assets -LRB- ROA -RRB- of 0.2 and -2.1 percent in 1996 and 1997 , respectively . 
In early 1997 , some chaebol went bankrupt and the general shortage in liquidity began to afflict businesses . 
Instability increased in international financial markets as well . 
Thailand and other Southeast Asian countries came near to a foreign exchange crisis in August 1997 . 
Asian stock markets crashed in October , and worries spread to Japan 's financial markets . 
International credit rating agencies began to downgrade Korea , which was finally engulfed in the financial crisis at the end of November . 
Many explanations have been suggested for the financial crisis . 
Many explanations can be categorized broadly into two schools , with one finding the root cause in the economic fundamentals of the country in crisis and the other emphasizing the self-fulfilling nature of the crisis . 
According to the first , weak economic fundamentals － inconsistency between exchange rate policy and other policies -LRB- monetary and fiscal policy in particular -RRB- , financial weakness of the corporate and banking sector , implicit state guarantees to businesses and financial institutions , and unsustainable current account deficits － are at the heart of any foreign exchange crisis . 
In the case of East Asian countries , the unhealthy relationship between government and the private sector -LRB- so-called `` crony capitalism '' -RRB- produced widespread weaknesses in the economy . 
International investors , sensing these weaknesses , began to pull capital out of the country and the crisis erupted . 
In contrast , the second school maintains that international financial markets demonstrate a high degree of intrinsic instability . 
When every creditor expects other creditors to withdraw from a country , there will occur a `` run '' on the country , driving down the currency and generating bankruptcies . 
A collective action of this sort can ruin a country even if a country fundamentals are sound . 
According to Radelet and Sachs -LRB- 1998 -RRB- , the sharp rebound of the East Asian countries after the crisis indicates that the East Asian countries after the crisis problem lay not in insolvency arising from weak fundamentals , but illiquidity produced by international creditors ' uncoordinated withdrawal . 
Korea , for example , could come out of the turmoil only after foreign creditor banks collectively agreed to the rollover of short-term debts . 
There is not enough clear-cut evidence to support either of these two opposing views , which implies that both may contain some degree of truth . 
Accordingly , the policy response of the Korean government was centered on -LRB- 1 -RRB- restructuring corporate and financial sectors to redress fundamental weaknesses and -LRB- 2 -RRB- seeking international help to tide over the illiquidity . 
The following subsection dwells on policy responses after the crisis . 
5 . 
2 Policy responses to the crisis 5 . 
2.1 Monetary and fiscal polices 
The sudden depreciation of the Korean won wreaked havoc on businesses and banks and the Korean economy entered an unprecedented crisis . 
Initially , the government tightened monetary and fiscal policies to contract domestic demand , improve the current account balance , and stabilize the exchange rate . 
The corporate bond yield soared from 12 percent before the crisis to over 30 percent at the end of 1997 . 
As a result , the exchange rate began to stabilize in the second quarter of 1998 and the current account turned into a large surplus in 1998 -LRB- Table 2-15 -RRB- . 
The austerity policies , however , deepened the recession and generated public criticism of the IMF , which demanded the tightening as a condition for liquidity support . 
It is not easy to determine what would have happened with more accommodative policies ; nonetheless , the tightening seems to have been indispensable to stabilizing the foreign exchange market . 
Faced with a massive withdrawal by foreign creditors , domestic financial institutions flocked to the foreign exchange market to buy foreign currencies with borrowed money . 
The Korean won would have been substantially weakened if The Korean won borrowing had not been curbed by high interest rates -LRB- Joon-kyung Kim and Dongchul Cho , 2003 , p. 379 -RRB- . 
As the liquidity crisis subsided , the government switched into an expansionary mode . 
The interest rate was lowered and the fiscal deficit was increased . 
Helped by strong export demand from advanced countries , output growth recovered rapidly , moving from -5.7 percent in 1997 to 10.7 percent in 1998 . 
The government also embarked on a thorough reform of the corporate , financial and public sectors , and the labor market . 
The loose monetary and fiscal policy facilitated microeconomic reforms by reducing macroeconomic risks . 
5 . 
2.2 Corporate sector reform 
The corporate sector reform had two objectives . 
The first was to restructure insolvent firms that could not repay two objectives debts , and the second was to strengthen market discipline to prevent future crises . 
First , the restructuring effort relied on two strategies . 
One was the swapping of business lines -LRB- so-called `` big deals '' -RRB- between the chaebol that was arranged and enforced by the government . 
The other was out-of-court debt settlements , known as `` workout '' programs , whereby a firm and a firm creditors negotiated rescheduling or restructuring with more flexibility than in formal proceedings . 
These were emergency measures to speed up the restructuring . 
These differed from the industrial rationalization of the 1980s in that the size of bad loans was far larger . 
The restructuring process was also made as open and transparent as possible by inviting foreign as well as domestic investors to buy insolvent firms . 
Second , the structural reform of the corporate sector was based on `` the five plus three principles . '' 
In January 1998 , president-elect Kim Dae-jung and the owners of the four largest chaebol agreed on -LRB- 1 -RRB- enhancing the transparency of corporate management , -LRB- 2 -RRB- eliminating cross-debt guarantees , -LRB- 3 -RRB- improving the capital structure considerably , -LRB- 4 -RRB- focusing on core lines of business and strengthening cooperation with SMEs , and -LRB- 5 -RRB- increasing the accountability of controlling shareholders and managers . 
In accordance with these five principles , consolidated financial statements became mandatory for the chaebol , international accounting standards were introduced , listed companies were required to appoint outside directors , a uniform debt-equity ratio ceiling of 200 percent was set for all firms -LRB- to be met by the end of 1999 -RRB- , and the Commerce Act was revised to recognize as de facto directors those who carried out a director 's role without such title -LRB- e.g. , controlling shareholders -RRB- . 
In August 1999 , three more principles were added ; -LRB- 1 -RRB- improving the governance structure of the NBFIs , -LRB- 2 -RRB- restraining intra-group circular shareholdings within the chaebol and blocking unfair inside trading , and -LRB- 3 -RRB- prohibiting unlawful inheritance and gifts . 
The main objective was to stop the chaebol from exploiting NBFIs under the chaebol control to escape restructuring , and to discourage chaebol owners from handing over chaebol owners controlling interest illegally to chaebol owners descendants and relatives . 
Among the five plus three principles , two － namely , enhancing corporate transparency and increasing the accountability of controlling shareholders and managers － were essential in strengthening market discipline . 
Others － eliminating cross debt guarantees , improving the capital structure , etc. － were temporary measures employed during the period when the market principle was not working properly . 
The lack of market discipline was manifested when Daewoo issued an enormous amount of corporate bonds -LRB- 17 trillion won -RRB- between the end of 1997 and September 1998 on the assumption that the government would not let the five largest chaebol falter . 
On top of `` the five plus three '' principles , additional efforts were made to dispel moral hazard , improve corporate governance , and intensify competitive pressures . 
To dispel moral hazard , a partial deposit insurance system and forward-looking criteria for non - performing loans were introduced , and insolvent firms were allowed to go bankrupt -LRB- as in the case of Daewoo in 1999 -RRB- , inflicting losses on shareholders , financial institutions and other concerned parties . 
To improve corporate governance , conditions on the exercise of shareholders ' rights were relaxed , the role of institutional investors was expanded , and M&A s were deregulated , leading to the stronger position of shareholders vis-a-vis ‵ the management . 
Lastly , to intensify competitive pressure , regulations on FDI were eliminated almost completely , the import diversification system was discontinued , and the bankruptcy law was revised . 
5 . 
2.3 Financial sector reform 
As in the corporate sector , financial sector reform had two objectives ; on the one hand , normalizing the financial system as fast as possible through restructuring , and on the other , rebuilding a financial safety net to prevent future crises . 
First , to normalize the financial system , the government planned a speedy state-led restructuring of financial institutions . 
Those institutions capable of creating systemic risks -LRB- e.g. , large banks -RRB- were reorganized with capital injections . 
To minimize moral hazard and to maintain market discipline , the incumbent management was removed , existing shares were retired , and employees were laid off . 
On the other hand , those posing little systemic risk -LRB- e.g. , small banks and merchant banking corporations -RRB- were wound down . 
Second , to rebuild the financial safety net , a consolidated regulatory agency with oversight on the banking , securities and insurance industries was created . 
In addition , prompt corrective action was introduced . 
The criteria for non-performing loans became much more stringent , and Korea Asset Management Corporation was established in 1999 to purchase and dispose of the impaired assets of financial institutions . 
In May 1998 , financial sector restructuring funds of 64 trillion won were raised in a first round of bond issues . 
The second round in December 2000 added 40 trillion won to the pool of funds available for the purchase of impaired assets , recapitalization , and repayment of deposits of viable financial institutions . 
In addition to bond issues , the government resorted to other funding sources such as international lenders , state property holdings and public funds to raise a total of 168.3 trillion won , which was equivalent to 35 percent of GDP in 1998 . 
5 . 
2.4 Labor market reform 
In restructuring corporations and financial institutions , the large-scale layoff of redundant workers was inevitable . 
However , militant labor unions had traditionally been a fixture in these organizations and great difficulty was expected in implementing the necessary reform . 
To build public consensus on the reforms , the government set up the Tripartite Commission in January 1998 , which consisted of representatives from government , employer groups and the two national labor federations . 
The key issue was legalizing layoffs for managerial reasons . 
The Tripartite Commission arrived at an agreement and relevant laws were revised in February 1998 . 
Employers could now lay off workers in case of `` urgent managerial need , '' including M&A s. Restrictions on the use of temporary dispatched workers were also reduced . 
Workers , on the other hand , made gains on such issues as legalizing civil servants ' workplace associations -LRB- a weaker form of labor unions -RRB- and teachers ' unions , and allowing the political participation of labor unions , which the unions had demanded consistently since the early 1990s . 
The reform , however , did not contribute much to enhancing labor market flexibility because layoffs and the use of dispatched workers were already quite common in most workplaces . 
But the reform had political significance in ending nationwide disputes that erupted at the turn of 1997 concerning layoffs and other industrial relations issues . 
Furthermore , most of the basic rights of workers were restored with the reform . 
Excessive restrictions on collective dismissal were now mostly dismantled . 
43 
5 . 
2.5 Public sector reform 
The public sector also undertook far-reaching reforms to set an example for private sector restructuring . 
Central government ministries were reorganized , and a new body in charge of prudential regulation was created . 
A large-scale privatization program was prepared , mandating immediate privatization for five SOEs , 44 a phased-in privatization for six , 45 and internal restructuring or managerial improvement for fifteen . 
At the same time , employment in central and local governments and central and local governments agencies was reduced drastically . 
Efforts were also made to redefine the role of government and improve the role of government capability . 
The Regulatory Reform Committee was installed in the Prime Minister ' Office to lead the government-wide initiative to reduce total regulations by half . 
Confusion about the proper goals of regulatory reform persisted , but an OECD indicator points to a substantial reduction in product market regulations between 1998 and 2003 -LRB- Conway , Janod and Nicoletti , 2005 -RRB- . 
In addition , some managerial positions were opened up to outsiders , a performance-based pay system was introduced , and e-government was actively promoted . 
Service quality improvement was also emphasized . 
5 . 
2.6 Welfare policies 
Before the crisis , Korea had already equipped Korea with a basic welfare system , consisting of a public assistance program － Livelihood Protection Program -LRB- 1961 -RRB- － and four social insurance programs － Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance -LRB- 1964 -RRB- , National Health Insurance -LRB- 1977 -RRB- , National Pension Scheme -LRB- 1988 -RRB- , and the Employment Insurance System -LRB- 1995 -RRB- . 
46 Most of these programs , however , were limited in 46 Most of these programs coverage . 
For example , the unemployment benefits of the Employment Insurance System -LRB- EIS -RRB- covered only those firms with at least 30 workers , and not all of these establishments actually paid insurance premiums . 
Unemployment skyrocketed from 2.6 percent in 1997 to 7.0 percent in 1998 , and many people fell below the poverty line . 
In response , the government increased wage subsidies to firms that retained redundant workers and expanded vocational training for the unemployed within the framework of EIS . 
In March 1998 , a public works program was introduced to create jobs directly with tax money . 
This program played a major role during the crisis in providing emergency support to the poor . 
Unemployed college graduates could also benefit from government-paid internships at private companies . 
At the same time , the government made important changes to the EIS and the public assistance program . 
First , the coverage of EIS was extended rapidly in 1998 to firms with at least ten workers -LRB- January -RRB- , to those with at least five workers -LRB- March -RRB- , and eventually to those with one or more workers -LRB- October -RRB- . 
47 
Second , a new public assistance program , the National Basic Livelihood Security Program -LRB- NBLSP -RRB- , replaced the existing one in 2000 . 
The NBLSP stipulated the responsibility of government to guarantee minimum living standards for the whole population by providing benefits to households below the poverty line . 
It has been , however , criticized for discouraging participants to seek employment . 
5 . 
3 Outcomes of policy responses 
5 . 
3.1 Rehabilitating the financial health of the corporate and financial sectors 
Through the restructuring process , corporations and financial institutions improved corporations and financial institutions financial health significantly . 
In the corporate sector , latent non-performing assets were estimated at 18.6 trillion won , or 3.4 percent of GDP , at the end of 2001 . 
This ratio was much lower than the level observed before the crisis -LRB- over 20 percent -RRB- , and government intervention was deemed no longer necessary . 
Debt-to-equity ratios and other financial indicators also improved dramatically . 
Of particular importance was the disappearance of implicit state guarantees to businesses . 
Witnessing the demise of Daewoo and other chaebol , businesses hurried to dispose of unprofitable business lines and reduce debts , and became more prudent in businesses investment decisions . 
The root of the chaebol problem vanished . 
Also notable were the sweeping changes in the financial sector . 
All weak financial institutions , except large banks , were closed down or merged -LRB- Table 2-17 -RRB- . 
Twenty-nine out of thirty merchant banking corporations , which were directly responsible for the outbreak of the crisis , disappeared . 
As for other NBFIs , including insurance companies , mutual savings banks , credit unions and lease companies , over half of them discontinued mutual savings banks , credit unions and lease companies , over half of them business . 
The number of banks also decreased by half , and the financial health of the remaining banks improved markedly ; The number of banks also decreased by half , and the financial health of the remaining banks average capital adequacy ratio rose from 7.0 percent in 1997 to 10.8 percent in 1999 , and recorded 12.4 percent in 2005 . 
The public sector reform was completed mainly as planned . 
All of the five SOEs slated for immediate privatization were privatized , as were three of the six SOEs scheduled for phased-in privatization . 
Consequently , the total number of SOEs and three of the six SOEs scheduled for phased-in privatization subsidiaries decreased by 64 percent from 98 to 35 , and three of the six SOEs scheduled for phased-in privatization employment by 62 percent . 
Across the entire public sector , including central and local governments and central and local governments agencies , employment was reduced by 20 percent between 1997 and 2001 . 
Privatization also generated revenues of 24.3 trillion won . 
5 . 
3.2 Establishing an advanced market economy 
The Korean economy emerged from the crisis in an entirely different shape . 
First , The Korean economy became much more open to international capital flows . 
Most of the restrictions on inward FDI were lifted at the end of 1997 . 
FDI surged in and the accumulated amount of FDI inflows reached 100 billion dollars in October 2004 , of which 82 percent had occurred since the crisis . 
Foreign exchange trading was liberalized in two stages between April 1999 and January 2001 , which helped the daily trading volume to jump from 4 billion dollars -LRB- 1 percent of GDP -RRB- in 1998 to 30 billion dollars -LRB- 3 percent of GDP -RRB- in 2006 . 
49 The government also abolished the ceiling on foreign shareholdings in listed companies in May 1998 . 
The foreigners ' share of total market capitalization rose sharply and exceeded 40 percent in 2004 , up from less than 15 percent in 1996 . 
50 
Second , the transparency of corporate management was substantially enhanced . 
Accounting standards were revised , the chaebol were required to prepare consolidated financial statements , and external auditors and corporate accounting officers were subject to stiffer penalties . 
In particular , the punishment of Daewoo 's management and Daewoo 's accounting firms sent a strong signal that corporate crimes would no longer be tolerated . 
51 In corporate governance , outside directors became a permanent part of the governance structure and the rights of shareholders were significantly strengthened . 
Third , the working of the financial market improved substantially . 
Most importantly , interest rates were fully liberalized and could now play interest rates proper role as a price mechanism . 
Previously , liberalization was delayed because Third , the working of the financial market would increase interest rate volatility given the BOK 's control of the money supply . 
In the wake of the crisis , BOK shifted to a policy of inflation targeting , discontinued a policy of inflation control of the money supply , and began to influence the interest rate directly through open market operations . 
In the meantime , the treasury bond market increased in size and provided a stable benchmark interest rate . 
The stock market also grew steadily from 2003 , helped by strengthened shareholder rights , the full opening of the market to foreigners , the increased role of institutional investors , and low interest rates . 
5 . 
3.3 Growth performance of the Korean economy since the crisis 
How did these structural reforms translate into the overall economic growth ? 
The annual growth rate declined from 7.9 percent in 1990-1995 to 4.5 percent in 2000-2005 . 
The decline was accompanied by a noticeable fall in investment rates . 
Chin Hee Hahn and Sukha Shin -LRB- 2007 -RRB- broke down the aggregate growth into the growth of capital , labor and total factor productivity -LRB- TFP -RRB- . 
Chin Hee Hahn and Sukha Shin -LRB- 2007 -RRB- results show that the slowdown in the growth of capital and labor explains most of the decline in the aggregate growth . 
In contrast , the TFP growth rose from 0.8 percent in 1990-1995 to 2.0 percent in 2000-2005 , slightly above the 1.5 percent recorded in 1960-1990 . 
the TFP growth interpret this result as favorable to the hypothesis that the structural reforms contributed to the improved efficiency of the Korean economy . 
5 . 
4 The 2008 global financial crisis and the Korean economy 
5 . 
4.1 The outbreak of the crisis and the crisis impact on domestic economy 
The global financial crisis that started with the fall in housing prices in the United States in 2007 became truly global in scale as Lehman Brothers filed for bankruptcy in September 2008 . 
In Korea , output shrank by 4.5 percent in the fourth quarter of 2008 -LRB- 17 percent in annual terms -RRB- . 
Even before the global financial crisis , there had been small and large shocks in the 2000s , such as the collapse of the KOSDAQ market in 2000 after the burst of IT bubble and the credit card crisis in 2003 . 
But these shocks arose from domestic sources 53 and did not result from a global economic downturn . 
The American economy , the epicenter of the crisis , has had structural problems for years . 
Blanchard -LRB- 2009 -RRB- points to four such problems 54 ; -LRB- 1 -RRB- the assets that were created and traded appeared much less risky than 54 ; -LRB- 1 -RRB- the assets that were created and traded appeared much less risky than they truly were ; -LRB- 2 -RRB- securitization led to complex and hard-to-value assets being placed on the balance sheets of financial institutions truly were ; -LRB- 2 -RRB- securitization led to complex and hard-to-value assets being placed on the balance sheets of financial institutions ; -LRB- 3 -RRB- securitization and globalization led to increasing connectedness both within and across countries ; and -LRB- 4 -RRB- leverage increased . 
These problems produced asset price bubbles and increased the vulnerability of financial system . 
The global crisis threw Korean financial markets into disarray . 
The sudden capital outflow caused a severe credit crunch in the domestic financial market . 
The stock market plunged by 40.7 percent in the course of 2008 and declined further by 5.5 percent in the first two months of 2009 . 
Domestic banks faced serious difficulties in rolling over foreign debt . 
The won weakened by 40 percent against the dollar between October 2008 and February 2009 . 
The industrial sector was also battered by the precipitous fall in exports and investment . 
In the last quarter of 2008 , exports contracted by 41 percent , investment by 45 percent , and output by 17 percent in annual terms . 
Still , the pain was milder than during the 1997 crisis ; output returned to positive growth in the first quarter of 2009 -LRB- Figure 2-18 -RRB- . 
5 . 
4.2 Policy responses to the crisis 
The rapid recovery from the crisis was due to , among other reasons , the reduced vulnerability of the financial and corporate sectors as a result of the restructuring following the 1997 crisis ; the reduction of home equity loans before the 2008 crisis due to various regulations ; and prompt policy responses to the crisis . 
The policy responses can be summarized as follows . 
First , the government and BOK provided 55 billion dollars in foreign currency -LRB- 21 billion dollars in export credits and 34 billion dollars in emergency liquidity -RRB- to the banking sector between October 2008 and February 2009 . 
the government and BOK also announced that state guarantees would be provided for new foreign borrowing by domestic banks and domestic banks overseas branches until June 2009 . 
In October 2008 , the BOK and the Federal Reserve signed a currency swap accord worth 30 billion dollars . 
In December , similar swap accords were arranged with Japan and China , each worth 30 billion dollars . 
These measures , together with the current account surplus , helped to ease the shortage in foreign liquidity ; the rollover rate of banks ' foreign borrowing dropped to around 50 percent in October but recovered to 106 percent in March 2009 . 
Second , the BOK slashed the BOK policy rate from 5.25 to 2 percent between September 2008 and February 2009 . 
the BOK also rapidly expanded domestic liquidity by 23 trillion won through purchases of RPs -LRB- repurchase agreements -RRB- and treasury bonds and early repayment of MSBs . 
Third , fiscal policy took an expansionary turn . 
On top of the tax cuts announced before the crisis , the government introduced a supplementary budget in September 2008 to increase spending . 
Total spending growth in 2008 was 14 percent , well above the 5-10 percent observed in previous years . 
Spending was further increased in 2009 by 14 percent . 
As a result , the operational fiscal balance recorded a deficit of 4 percent of GDP in 2009 . 
Fourth , the government announced a plan to expand credit guarantees for SMEs through various public funds . 
All expiring guarantees during 2009 would be automatically extended , the hurdle for borrowers would be lowered to get new guarantees , and the guarantee ratio would be raised from 85 to 100 percent of the loan amount for some types of borrowers -LRB- e.g. , exporting companies -RRB- . 
Fifth , the burden of home equity loans was lessened for borrowers . 
the burden of home equity loans could get guarantees equivalent to the decline in the burden of home equity loans housing prices up to 100 million won . 
The maximum grace period and repayment period of home equity loans were extended to 5-10 years and 30-35 years , respectively . 
Those who wanted to move from variable to fixed interest payments were exempted from associated fees . 
Sixth , recapitalization schemes were prepared to strengthen the financial health of financial institutions and to facilitate the corporate sector restructuring . 
In the first round , the Bank Recapitalization Fund , worth 20 trillion won , was set up with capital injections of 10 , 2 , and 8 trillion won from the BOK , KDB and institutional investors , respectively . 
In the second round , the Financial Stabilization Fund was set up within the Korea Finance Corporation , a state-owned financial institution specializing in policy loans , to support the recapitalization of banks and NBFIs . 
In addition , a Restructuring Fund worth 40 trillion won was set up within the Korea Asset Management Corporation to buy and dispose of impaired asset owned by financial institutions and restructured enterprises . 
6 . 
Challenges 
The Korean economy is currently faced with many challenges to The Korean economy long-term growth and development . 
First , growth is slowing due to the declined in employment growth and the savings rate . 
According to the IMF -LRB- 2006 -RRB- , the potential growth rate will fall from 4.5 percent in recent years to 2 percent in 2050 , and Korea will never be able to catch up with the U.S. in terms of per capita GDP . 
Raising the employment rate , which remains low in international comparison -LRB- Figure 6-19 in Chapter 6 -RRB- , looks essential to boost growth . 
In addition , it is very important to limit the negative effects of declining savings rate , for example by reforming the pention and health insurance systems and running fiscal surpluses . 
Second , the productivity gap is widening between manufacturing and service industries -LRB- Figure 3-11 in Chapter 3 -RRB- . 
The gap between HCIs and light industries in the manufacturing sector is also increasing as can be inferred from the growing share of HCIs in total manufacturing value-added -LRB- Figure 3-3 -RRB- . 
Because HCIs are dominated by large corporations , the gap between large corporations and SMEs is widening as well -LRB- Figure 3 - 12 -RRB- . 
These gaps are delaying overall productivity improvement and the creation of high - quality jobs . 
Without decisive policy actions , the gap will continue to grow in the future . 
Third , income disparity is widening . 
The Gini coefficient rose from 0.26 to 0.32 between 1992 and 2008 -LRB- Figure 6-35 in Chapter 6 -RRB- . 
Increasing inequality is a byproduct of globalization and the knowledge-based economy that puts low-skilled workers at a disadvantage , and is therefore a worldwide phenomenon . 
In the case of Korea , stagnant employment growth , the increasing share of the elderly in the population , inequality in educational opportunities , and the insufficient coverage of the social safety net are adding to the problem . 
Growing inequality is not only undesirable in Growing inequality but also harmful to stable economic growth and social development . 
But reversing the trend will be very difficult because the trend reflects in most part the structural change in the economy . 
Fourth , the global financial crisis demonstrated that Korea 's exposure to external shocks has increased considerably . 
the global financial crisis also showed that a crisis can break out in advanced as well as developing economies with little prior warning . 
the global financial crisis is thus becoming more difficult to safeguard the stability of the domestic financial market . 
Fifth , the financial health of the government is deteriorating . 
Central government debt increased from less than 10 percent of GDP in 1996 to 30 percent in 2006 . 
After stabilizing in 2007 and 2008 , Fifth , the financial health of the government resumed increasing in 2009 due to the global financial crisis . 
Over the longer term , the aging population will accelerate the growth in pension and healthcare spending and pose a far greater threat . 
Reunification with North will also entail enormous fiscal costs . 
These changes require a new growth strategy . 
With the slower growth of labor and capital , total factor productivity -LRB- TFP -RRB- gains greater importance as an engine of growth . 
Input-driven , especially investment-driven , growth is no longer feasible . 
All efforts should be directed at accelerating the overall TFP growth , and for this purpose , it is imperative to improve the productivity of the service sector and SMEs drastically . 
This will also help expand employment opportunities and reduce income inequality . 
In addition , greater attention should be paid to securing financial stability and improving the financial health of the government . 
7 . 
Conclusion 
In the 1960s and 1970s , Korea concentrated Korea efforts on fostering economic growth . 
The government employed financial repression to support exporting companies and HCIs . 
Perhaps more importantly , the strong political leadership guided the private sector away from zero-sum rent-seeking activities toward positive-sum productive activities -LRB- Jones and SaKong , 1980 -RRB- . 
In particular , the exchange rate reform and export promotion exposed domestic producers to international competition and encouraged domestic producers to concentrate domestic producers effort on productivity-enhancing investments . 
Other `` right '' policies at the time included well-established private property rights , a relatively stable macroeconomic environment , and emphasis on education -LRB- particularly primary and secondary education -RRB- and infrastructure investment . 
Helped by these policies , Korea achieved unprecedented success in economic growth and social development in a relatively short period of time . 
The government-led growth strategy , however , produced many problems , including excess capacity in HCIs , the concentration of economic power in the chaebol , chronic inflation , and distortions in industrial relations . 
A risk partnership system between the state and private sector developed , and the financial fragility of the corporate and banking sector increased . 
Entering the 1980s , the risk partnership system was not dismantled but strengthened and eventually played a part in triggering the financial crisis in 1997 . 
In the wake of the crisis , the Korean government strived to restructure the corporate and financial sector and to install an advanced market system with institutional reforms . 
While pursuing liberalization , the government strengthened corporate governance , prudential regulation and the social safety net . 
The improved economic fundamentals enabled Korea to overcome the global financial crisis in 2008 and 2009 without great difficulty . 
Still , there are many challenges facing the Korean economy : Growth is slowing due to the decline in employment growth and the savings rate . 
Productivity gaps are widening between manufacturing and service industries , between HCIs and light industries , and between large corporations and SMEs . 
Income disparity is widening due to the globalization of the Korean economy , the increasing productivity gaps between sectors , population aging , and other factors . 
Solutions to these problems should be found in strengthening the role of government in stabilizing the macro-economy , establishing market discipline , and expanding the social safety net . 
First , it is necessary to minimize macroeconomic risks by maintaining low inflation , improving financial stability , and ensuring fiscal sustainability . 
Inflation targets should be lowered , possibly to around 2 percent adopted in other advanced countries . 
Financial stability can be improved with , among other measures , restrictions on home equity loans , stringent foreign currency liquidity requirements , closer cooperation between regulatory agencies , and active participation in international discussions on the new regulatory framework -LRB- Dongchul Cho et al. , 2009 -RRB- . 
Lastly , the medium-term fiscal framework needs to be reinforced to impose stronger intertemporal budget constraints on government . 
Second , at a microeconomic level , the principle of market-led growth should be firmly established . 
Despite the reforms since the financial crisis , some parts of the economy are still subject to heavy direct intervention by the government . 
Examples include restrictions on market entry and business operations in professional services ; fiscal , tax and financial support given to SMEs ; and government investment to promote particular industries -LRB- as high-tech medical complexes being built in two Korean cities -RRB- . 
These interventions reflect the continued belief in the omnipotence of government and distrust in the market economy , a legacy from the government-led growth period . 
These interventions are likely to hinder TFP growth by distorting resource allocation , suppressing innovation , and encouraging rent-seeking . 
Government interventions should now be limited to those areas where market failure is clearly present . 
For examples , support for SMEs should be focused on start-up companies that suffer from information asymmetry . 
At the same time , greater efforts should be made to strengthen market competition . 
Market-led growth is not equivalent to laissez faire ; on the contrary , government needs to actively promote competition between producers , speed up market opening , regulate monopolies , and protect consumers . 
It should be kept in mind that competition is the main driver toward innovation and TFP growth . 
Third , attention should be paid to social cohesion . 
The social protection system should be expanded to include those who are most in need of state help . 
In particular , active labor market policies such as vocational training and job placement services should provide effective support to low-skilled workers and other vulnerable groups . 
In addition , educational assistance to low-income families should be increased . 
The overall quality of educational services , which is widely viewed as inadequate , should also be enhanced . 
1 . 
Introduction 
The tremendous growth of the Korean economy in the last 60 years has been accompanied by deep changes in its industrial structure . 
Initially , the Korean economy was dominated by agriculture and other primary industries . 
As the industrialization gained full momentum in the 1960s , labor-intensive manufacturing came to lead output growth by utilizing Korea 's comparative advantage in Korea 's abundant supply of a relatively well-educated and diligent labor force . 
But as wage levels rose and competition from low-wage economies intensified in the 1970s , capital-intensive , high-productivity manufacturing assumed importance over labor-intensive , low-productivity manufacturing . 
Entering the 1980s , private enterprises stepped up investment in research and development -LRB- R&D -RRB- to improve productivity further . 
These efforts gradually bore fruit and the productivity gap with advanced countries narrowed significantly in the 1990s . 
In a few industries such as information and communication technology -LRB- ICT -RRB- , Korea became a global leader . 
The trend continued into the 2000s , with many Korean firms in important industries -LRB- electronics , steel , automobile , shipbuilding and others -RRB- emerging as global players . 
Progress toward higher value-added activities was made possible not only by the rapid accumulation of capital based on increased domestic savings , but also by the heavy investment in technology at each level of development and the flexible reallocation of resources from less to more productive sectors . 
Foreign trade played a pivotal role in this respect by encouraging innovation and accelerating resource reallocation . 
It also enabled Korea to learn from advanced countries and take advantage of the rapidly expanding global market . 
Entrepreneurs responded to changing circumstances by committing Entrepreneurs to entering new markets and pioneering new products . 
The government provided the institutional and physical infrastructure essential for The government activities . 
Many tasks lie ahead for Korea to sustain Korea growth and adapt Korea industrial structure to changing conditions . 
Efforts are needed to develop new growth engines in such areas as the advanced technology sector , parts and materials sector , and knowledge-based service industries . 
It is also important to enhance the competitiveness of small - and medium-sized enterprises -LRB- SMEs -RRB- and domestic-oriented industries , and to reconcile industrial development with environmental protection . 
Most of these tasks are the responsibility of the private sector , on whose dynamism the Korean economy will continue to depend . 
Now that Korea has significantly narrowed the technological gap with advanced countries and has become an industry leader in some cases , the uncertainty surrounding investment outcomes is much bigger and the government is nearly incapable of picking winners . 
Korea role now lies in finding and eliminating obstacles to entrepreneurship , encouraging innovation through regulatory reform and trade liberalization , correcting market failures -LRB- positive externalities in particular -RRB- if positive externalities in particular exist , and supplying high-quality manpower , all in close consultation with market participants . 
All government interventions should be based on sound economic analyses , have clear criteria for success and failure , and target specific activities -LRB- R&D , for example -RRB- but not specific sectors -LRB- pharmaceuticals , for example -RRB- . 
This chapter reviews the development path of the Korean economy , offers explanations on the underlying factors , and proposes future policy directions . 
The discussion will focus on the manufacturing sector , while mention will be made of the primary , construction and service sectors when necessary . 
2 . 
Structural changes in the Korean economy 2 . 
1 Rapid changes in industrial structure 
After a long period of stagnation , the Korean economy began to grow rapidly in the 1960s . 
The growth spurt was led by manufacturing , whose output grew annually by 17 percent in the 1960s and 16 percent in the 1970s -LRB- Table 3-1 -RRB- . 
The share of manufacturing in gross value-added rose from 12 percent in 1953-1960 to 23 percent in 1971-1980 -LRB- Figure 3-1 , Table 3-2 -RRB- . 
Table 3-2 share in total employment also rose rapidly -LRB- Figure 3-2 -RRB- . 
In the meantime , the share of services increased continuously in terms of both value-added and employment , whereas that of agriculture declined . 
Within manufacturing , heavy and chemical industries -LRB- HCIs -RRB- have increased heavy and chemical industries -LRB- HCIs -RRB- share at the expense of light industries -LRB- Figure 3-3 , Table 3-2 -RRB- . 
Similar changes have occurred in the export structure -LRB- Figure 3-4 -RRB- . 
In 1970 , the primary industries -LRB- mostly mining and fisheries -RRB- accounted for 17 percent of total exports , light industries 70 percent and HCIs 13 percent . 
In 2008 , the primary industries -LRB- mostly mining and fisheries -RRB- shares were 2 percent , 6 percent and 92 percent , respectively . 
The top 10 export items also changed dramatically -LRB- Table 3-3 -RRB- . 
Similar patterns of structural change have been observed in other countries as well . 
According to Table 3-4 , Korea 's industrial structure in the early 1960s was comparable to that of U.K. in 1700 , the U.S. before 1880 , and Japan in the early decades of the 20th century . 
These countries saw manufacturing and service industries replacing the agricultural sector in importance in the following decades . 
What sets Korea apart from these advanced countries is the speed with which Korea 's achieved Korea 's structural changes . 
Korea 's industrial structure in 1990 came close to that of U.K. in 1890 , the U.S. in 1950 , and Japan in 1970 . 
For an international comparison , Jungho Yoo -LRB- 1997 -RRB- defines `` industrialization '' as the process during which the employment share of agriculture fell from above 50 percent to below 20 percent . 
Figure 3-5 illustrates that industrialization took much longer for early starters than for late starters . 
The transition from light industries to HCI-related ones within manufacturing is another common feature across economies . 
Figure 3-6 shows that the ratio of value-added of light industries to that of HCIs -LRB- Hoffman ratio -RRB- has been declining in advanced countries as well as in Korea . 
Again , the difference lies in the speed of decline . 
Korea indeed achieved `` compressed '' growth in the last few decades in much the same way as Taiwan and other East Asian countries did . 
2 . 
2 Capital accumulation and productivity growth 2 . 
2.1 Components of output growth 
The rapid economic growth and structural transformation was the result in the first place of the rapid accumulation of productive capital . 
From the mid-1970s to the present , the investment rate has stayed at 30-40 percent , reaching a peak in 1991 at 40 percent -LRB- Figure 3-7 -RRB- . 
Domestic investment has been mostly financed by domestic savings except between the mid-1960s and mid-1980s when Korea ran a large current account deficit . 
In fact , Krugman -LRB- 1994 -RRB- contended that most of East Asia ' economic growth stemmed from factor accumulation rather than efficiency improvement and would soon face deceleration as the diminishing returns set in . 
Krugman -LRB- 1994 -RRB- bases Krugman -LRB- 1994 -RRB- argument on a series of growth accounting analyses by Young -LRB- 1992 , 1993 , 1995 -RRB- , which point out the small contributions of total factor productivity -LRB- TFP -RRB- to the growth of East Asian economies . 
A recent study by Chin Hee Hahn and Sukha Shin -LRB- 2010 -RRB- gives a similar result -LRB- Table 3-5 -RRB- . 
Between 1961 and 2004 , per worker GDP grew by 4.7 percent annually , out of which 1.8 percent came from the TFP growth and 2.9 percent from per worker capital accumulation . 
The figures for industrial countries were 2.1 and 1.1 percent , respectively . 
Therefore the TFP growth explains 38 percent of the per worker GDP growth in Korea and 52 percent in industrial countries . 
Jong-il Kim -LRB- 2002 -RRB- proposes an interesting hypothesis on the reason for the smaller role played by TFP in East Asia . 
According to Jong-il Kim -LRB- 2002 -RRB- , technological progress is often heavily biased in a physical capital-using direction in the early stage of modern economic growth . 
Once the first phase of industrialization comes to a close , however , the technological progress becomes less capital-using and the bias shifts in an intangible capital-using direction , yielding a higher estimate of the TFP growth . 
In this respect , it is very important for Korea and other East Asian countries to invest in intangible capital such as education and R&D to make a successful transition from a low-TFP to a high-TFP economy . 
Still , according to the above table , Korea 's absolute level of TFP growth in the past has been quite remarkable , higher than that of industrial countries and surpassed only by China 's . 
Where did such efficiency improvement come from ? 
Three of its main sources are technological progress , resource reallocation and international trade . 
Each of these sources is discussed in some detail in the rest of this subsection . 
2 . 
2.2 Technological progress 
Technological progress is made possible by domestic R&D activities , imports of capital goods that embody advanced technologies , acquisition of foreign technologies , or knowledge transfer through foreign direct investments -LRB- FDIs , inward or outward -RRB- . 
In addition , exporters from developing countries can gain knowledge of product development , manufacturing , marketing , and other modern practices in advanced countries . 
The knowledge gained by exporting is subsequently disseminated to other parts of the economy , leaving positive externalities . 
International trade also strengthens the incentive of firms to innovate by increasing the market size and enhancing the competitive pressure . 
All of these factors , except perhaps FDIs , must have played an important role in Korea . 
Domestic R&D activities surged in the 1980s as the private R&D spending increased rapidly in response to the intensifying competition at home and abroad -LRB- Figure 3-8 -RRB- . 
The current level of total R&D spending -LRB- 3.4 percent of GDP in 2008 -RRB- is among the highest in the world . 
Since the 1960s , imports have been dominated by raw materials and capital goods . 
In 2000 , for example , imports of capital goods for domestic use corresponded to 57 percent of facilities investment -LRB- Table 3-6 -RRB- . 
The payment of royalties and license fees , one measure of technology acquisition , has been increasing over time , reaching 0.8 percent of GDP in 2009 -LRB- Figure 3-9 -RRB- . 
2 . 
2.3 Resource reallocation 
A second important source of efficiency improvement is the reallocation of resources from less productive toward more productive sectors . 
A notable example is the migration of labor and capital from agriculture to manufacturing , from light industries to HCIs , and from rural to urban areas . 
The economy-wide productivity improves when such migration proceeds without much difficulty . 
On the other hand , productivity improvement is constrained when such migration is hindered by an inflexible labor market , geographic immobility of factor inputs , government protection of declining industries and unprofitable businesses , inefficient financial intermediation , or inadequate supply of infrastructure to support the growth of cities . 
In Korea , the rapid structural changes recorded in the past decades -LRB- Figures 3-1 , 3-2 , 3 - 3 -RRB- indicate that resources have been reallocated quite flexibly across sectors . 
According to Jong-il Kim -LRB- 1998 -RRB- , the TFP growth in 1970-1986 was 1.45 percent per year , of which 0.74 percent was attributable to technological progress and 0.71 percent to resource reallocation , implying that the latter was as important as the former in productivity improvement . 
In the labor market , Kim and Topel -LRB- 1995 -RRB- report that labor mobility was high not only between rural and urban areas but also within manufacturing during the period of rapid economic growth -LRB- the 1970s and the early 1980s -RRB- . 
In the 1990s , the flexibility in employment and sectoral mobility somewhat declined as the supply of young workers from rural areas fell off -LRB- Ju Ho Lee and Dae-Il Kim , 1997 -RRB- . 
Geographic mobility has been also high as can be inferred from the rapid urbanization trend -LRB- Figure 3-10 -RRB- . 
The Korean government has made consistent efforts to expand urban infrastructure to accommodate the increasing population . 
As a percentage of GDP , the current level of government capital stock across the country compares favorably with those in major economies -LRB- Joonook Choi , DeokHyun Ryu and Hyungsoo Park , 2005 -RRB- . 
At the same time , however , the Korean government impeded the market-based resource reallocation with directed credits , the promotion of HCIs , repeated bailouts of insolvent firms , and the protection of SMEs . 
Perhaps more importantly , the long period of financial repression stunted the development of an efficient system of financial intermediation and weakened the competitiveness of the financial sector . 
It is still being debated whether these interventions accelerated or hampered the economic growth and structural changes . 
In understanding the nature of resource reallocation , one question remains . 
Other than government influences -LRB- intentional or unintentional -RRB- , what drives the reallocation ? 
An immediate answer would be the high profitability in high-productivity sectors that lures capital and labor into these sectors . 
But when the market size is limited , the extent of reallocation will also be limited . 
3 International trade in this regard enables a country to overcome the limited size of 3 International trade in this regard domestic market , and stimulates a further reallocation of resources toward 3 International trade in this regard areas of comparative advantage . 
Korea would not have been able to expand Korea manufacturing sector to the present degree without the opportunities offered by international trade . 
The meaning of comparative advantage needs some elaboration . 
Traditionally , factor endowments were believed to determine the comparative advantage of a country . 
But factor endowments can not explain the recent increase in intra-industry trade , and economies of scale is now receiving greater attention as a determinant of comparative advantage -LRB- Gill and Kharas , 2007 , p. 13 -RRB- . 
Products with small differences still fall under the same broad industrial classification , yet may be made in different countries and traded for each other . 
With increasing returns to scale , trade allows the exploitation of technological advantages by increasing the market size , and encourages specialization in production . 
Specialization in turn promotes innovation and reinforces the comparative advantage . 
The Korean economic growth in the past decades is well described by such a dynamic development of comparative advantages . 
2 . 
2.4 International trade 
The preceding discussions point out the critical role played by international transactions in facilitating technological progress and resource reallocation . 
the critical role played by international transactions in facilitating technological progress and resource reallocation create knowledge spillovers -LRB- through imported capital goods , acquisition of foreign technologies , and FDI -RRB- , promote learning by exporting , and strengthen the incentive to innovate . 
the critical role played by international transactions in facilitating technological progress and resource reallocation also allow domestic producers to access the global market and exploit the critical role played by international transactions in facilitating technological progress and resource reallocation comparative advantages . 
Many studies provide empirical support to the role of international trade in promoting Korea 's economic growth . 
4 
Some authors believe that the key to East Asia ' economic success was the regime that has been best described as free trade for exporters -LRB- Radelet , Sachs and Lee , 1997 -RRB- . 
The role of industrial policy in picking winners and salvaging losers was secondary to that of export promotion . 
The vastly enlarged international trade of the post-war period provided an opportunity for East Asian countries to rapidly improve East Asian countries productivity and achieve fast growth -LRB- Jungho Yoo , 1997 -RRB- . 
2 . 
3 Challenges 
The structural transformation of the Korean economy is an on-going process . 
The government should continue to promote productivity growth by facilitating technological progress and resource reallocation . 
There are , however , many potential impediments to continued productivity growth . 
First , many agree that Korea has graduated from the stage of `` extensive '' growth when the main challenge was to import and deploy foreign technologies － to do known things in known ways -LRB- Eichengreen and Chung , 2004 , p. 3 -RRB- . 
The opportunities for growth through catch-up have largely been exhausted , and future growth will depend critically on how Korea can expand Korea technological frontier through home-grown innovations . 
Technological progress , if any , will be slower than before and the uncertainty higher . 
As the government becomes incapable of charting the course of technological progress , it becomes more important to create a market-based innovation system in which various technologies are developed and tested by a diverse group of entrepreneurs and a diverse group of entrepreneurs success or failure is rewarded or punished by the market . 
The traditional government-led investment strategy can prevent Korea from converging with the world technology frontier -LRB- Acemoglu , Aghion and Zilibotti , 2006 -RRB- . 
Government interventions shoud be confined to clear cases of market failure . 
Second , educational opportunities rapidly expanded in the past -LRB- Figure 6-6 in Chapter 6 -RRB- , and there is now less room for growth in terms of the quantity of school education . 
The enrollment rate in 2009 was 98 percent in elementary school , 96 percent in middle school , 93 percent in high school , and 70 percent in tertiary education . 
This implies that the growth rate of human capital will slow in the future and with the growth rate of human capital , the productivity growth . 
An important issue at this stage is to improve the quality of education at all levels of schooling in line with the quantity expansion . 
This is essential to facilitate the intangible capital-using technological progress and promote productivity growth -LRB- Jong-il Kim , 2002 -RRB- . 
Efforts should be focused on increasing consumer choices and strengthening the accountability of service providers . 
Chapter 6 of this book addresses the issue . 
Third , some sectors － namely , the service sector and SMEs － of the Korean economy are suffering from a perennial productivity deficit . 
The productivity gap between the manufacturing and service sectors is widening -LRB- Figure 3-11 -RRB- . 
The gap between HCIs and light industries within manufacturing is also increasing as can be inferred from the growing share of HCIs in total manufacturing value-added -LRB- Figure 3-3 -RRB- . 
Because HCIs are populated by large corporations whereas light industries and services by SMEs , the gap between large corporations and SMEs is widening as well -LRB- Figure 3-12 -RRB- . 
The low productivity of services is concentrated in two subsectors － -LRB- 1 -RRB- wholesale and retail trade , and -LRB- 2 -RRB- restaurants and hotels . 
In 2006 , labor compensation per employee in these subsectors amounted to 26 percent of that in manufacturing . 
In G7 countries , the comparable figure was 55 percent -LRB- Figure 3-13 -RRB- . 
In 2007 , these subsectors accounted for 37 percent of the employment in services -LRB- Figure 3-14 -RRB- . 
This is smaller than 55 percent recorded in 1982 , but still sizable . 
Requiring a minimal amount of skills , G7 countries often provide the last resort for workers on the margins of the labor market together with some types of personal services . 
There do not appear to be many ways for the government to help these workers except in the framework of ALMPs -LRB- job training , employment service , etc. -RRB- or welfare programs -LRB- earned income tax credits , reduced social security contributions , etc. -RRB- . 
On the other hand , government policies for other types of services do have room for improvement . 
For example , many professional services -LRB- health care , legal , accounting , real estate appraisal , etc. -RRB- are tightly regulated by the government in part to correct market failures resulting from information asymmetry and negative externalities -LRB- Youngsun Koh et al. , 2009 ; Heesuk Yun and Youngsun Koh , 2009 -RRB- . 
But in reality , many of the regulations actually do more harm than good to consumer welfare by limiting competition between service providers and protecting service providers interests . 
At the same time , the government is not sufficiently monitoring the quality of services provided by professionals . 
Reforming the regulation of professional services － abolishing harmful regulations and strengthening the monitoring of service quality － will contribute to increased consumer welfare and promote the competitiveness of service providers . 
Similar efforts are required in other service sectors as well . 
As for SMEs , the government should streamline the government in part complicated system of SME assistance , refocus the policy on complementing rather than replacing the market mechanism , and restructure the implementation system . 
In particular , those credit programs that compete directly with private financial institutions should be discontinued -LRB- Young-sam Cho , 2009 -RRB- , and more authorities should be delegated to local governments -LRB- Jong-il Kim , 2007 -RRB- . 
To summarize , there exists an urgent need to establish a market-based innovation system , upgrade the quality of educational services , reform the regulatory framework of many service industries , and reorganize the SME assistance . 
Improving the productivity of the Korean economy will face great difficulty in the future without these efforts . 
Against this backdrop , the following sections describe in detail Korea 's industrial development since the 1950s . 
3 . 
Historical development of Korean industry 3 . 
1 Dominance of the primary sector in the 1940s and 1950s 
The Korean economy was dominated by the primary industries of agriculture , forestry and fisheries until the early 1960s , when Korea embarked on full-scale industrialization . 
Just prior to the 1960s , the primary sector accounted for nearly 40 percent of gross domestic product , while manufacturing accounted for only around 10 percent , and accounted for about a quarter of total exports . 
The dominance of the primary sector was not unusual given the underdeveloped nature of the Korean economy at the time . 
Moreover , Japanese colonial policy had created a complementary economic structure between the northern and southern parts of the Korean peninsula to support the Korean peninsula military expansion into China in the 1930s . 
While most manufacturing factories built by the Japanese in Korea were located in the north , close to similar facilities in the Japanese puppet state of Manchukuo , the south was designated as the prime source of food supplies . 
In addition , the manufacturing facilities that the south did possess were largely destroyed during the Korean War -LRB- 1950-1953 -RRB- . 
The most important policy change during this period was the land reform that started in 1950 . 
The redistribution of land ownership to small farmers accelerated productivity growth in agriculture by boosting small farmers work incentive . 
The newly-created farming class had more money to spend on educating The newly-created farming class children , which created a highly-skilled population that was necessary to support industrialization . 
Landlords who sold Landlords who sold their farms often farms often used the money to reinvest Landlords who sold their farms often in industrial enterprises , which provided an important source of capital for the initial stage of manufacturing development . 
The fishing industry played as important a role as agriculture in the primary sector during this period , although The fishing industry made up a smaller percentage of the economy . 
The fishing industry was an important foreign currency earner , accounting for the single largest source of foreign revenue after foreign aid during the late 1940s -LRB- Table 3-7 -RRB- . 
Fish exports , for example , made up 93 percent of Korea 's total exports in 1949 . 
Unlike agriculture , where tenant farming was prohibited and a ceiling was placed on the amount of landholding per farmer as a result of the land reform , the fishing industry became increasingly commercialized , while providing an important source of protein for a population that was suffering nutritional deficiencies . 
The construction sector also played an important role in the 1940s and 1950s in rehabilitating the physical infrastructure that had been neglected or destroyed in the late 1940s or during the Korean War . 
Infrastructure reconstruction contributed to economic growth and laid the base for the development of other industries . 
The development of the manufacturing sector was slow during this period , and depended heavily on foreign aid . 
The few industries that produced consumer goods , including sugar , flour and cotton -LRB- the so-called `` three white industries '' -RRB- , grew because foreign aid helped provide the raw materials and supported domestic demand . 
The rapid rise of the consumer goods industry , however , created an imbalance in the development of the industrial structure . 
The rapid rise of the consumer goods industry also increased a dependence on the import of raw materials and production machinery , which resulted in a deterioration in the balance of payments . 
Nonetheless , the sector ' growth laid the ground for subsequent industrialization in the 1960s and after . 
Foreign aid was used by the Korean government to buy fertilizer to increase food production ; develop energy industries , such as electricity and coal ; and build the infrastructure and facilities needed for the country 's post-war restoration . 
This led , however , to the establishment of a large number of state-run enterprises under the direct control of government . 
While these public enterprises greatly contributed to advancing Korea 's industrial structure in the early stages , these public enterprises later became an economic burden due to reckless management and growing debts . 
3 . 
2 Rapid Industrialization in the 1960s and 1970s 
3.2.1 Growth of the manufacturing sector 
In the 1960s , the manufacturing sector started to play a leading role in Korea 's economic growth . 
the manufacturing sector grew by 17 percent per year between 1960 and 1970 , the highest decade-long growth rate since 1953 -LRB- Table 3-1 -RRB- . 
the manufacturing sector continued to grow rapidly in the 1970s , and the manufacturing sector share in gross value added doubled from 12 percent in 1953-1960 to 23 percent in 1971-1980 -LRB- Table 3-2 -RRB- . 
the manufacturing sector share in total exports rose from one quarter in the early 1960s to nearly 90 percent in the early 1970s -LRB- Figure 3-4 -RRB- , with an accompanying change in major export items -LRB- Table 3-3 -RRB- . 
Manufacturing growth in this period was dominated by the labor-intensive light industries such as clothing and footwear . 
These industries absorbed the surplus labor force discharged from rural areas by creating jobs rapidly . 
As these industries began the labor-intensive light industries such as clothing and footwear production activities in industrial complexes near urban areas , the labor-intensive light industries such as clothing and footwear also contributed to the growth of large cities and the urbanization of the Korean population . 
The Guro industrial complex in Seoul is one example . 
There were several underlying factors for the phenomenal development of the manufacturing sector in Korea . 
First was the early generation of entrepreneurs who became aware of the opportunities offered by international markets and made profits from importing various goods that were in short supply in domestic markets . 
These small traders came to be the first group of industrial entrepreneurs who launched businesses in labor - intensive industries . 
The entrepreneurship of the early traders was combined with the unlimited supply of labor from the agricultural sector to generate the explosive growth of light industries . 
At that time , the wage level in Korea was one of the lowest in the world , while Korean workers were relatively well-educated and diligent . 
Labor-intensive industries could acquire cost competitiveness quickly and increase Labor-intensive industries share in the international market . 
Unlike labor , capital , another important factor of production was not abundant at that time . 
The domestic savings ratio was 15 and 23 percent in 1961-1970 and 1971-1980 , respectively , while the investment ratio was 19 and 29 percent -LRB- Table 3-8 -RRB- . 
The gap between savings and investment had to be financed by borrowing from abroad , which amounted to 3 and 6 percent of Gross National Disposal Income . 
In addition to borrowing , current transfers from abroad made significant contributions to alleviating the shortage in domestic savings . 
Without abroad , domestic savings would have been much lower -LRB- see the last row of Table 3-8 -RRB- . 
An important development in this regard was the reparation payment of 500 million dollars and commercial loans of 300 million dollars from Japan that followed the normalization of diplomatic relationship between Korea and Japan in 1965 . 
The payments were used in building Pohang Iron and Steel Company -LRB- now known as POSCO -RRB- and making investments in various sectors of the Korean economy . 
The Vietnam War became another source of foreign currency earnings to support industrialization since Korea received U.S. economic aid for The Vietnam War military participation in the war -LRB- 1965-1973 -RRB- , while Korean companies benefited from supplying services , including the building of military facilities , and products , such as uniforms , to the U.S. armed forces serving in Vietnam . 
Lastly , the role of government was no less important in accelerating the growth of manufacturing . 
During the first and second Five-Year Economic Development Plans undertaken in the 1960s , the Korean government invested heavily in physical infrastructure － power plants , express highways and seaports among others － to lay the foundation for export-driven industrialization . 
The government established many state-owned enterprises -LRB- SOEs -RRB- in key industries such as fertilizer , cement , oil refinering , and steel and iron , which were indispensable for industrial development . 
In addition , the government mobilized other policy measures , involving foreign exchange , taxation , finance and customs regulations , to promote export-oriented industries . 
Besides these conventional measures , the Korean government employed rather unusual methods , such as the president chairing the Monthly Export Promotion Meeting , which was meant to solve problems and remove bottlenecks affecting exports . 
3 . 
2.2 Growth of other sectors 
In the 1960s and 1970s , the construction sector also grew rapidly . 
the construction sector played a main role in building physical infrastructure and industrial plants . 
The experience gained from 
building large-scale facilities greatly enhanced Korea 's competitiveness in the construction industry and enabled the construction industry to win many overseas construction projects staring from the 1970s . 
Overseas construction orders rose from 170 million dollars in 1973 to 13 billion dollars in 1981 , contributing greatly to Korea 's foreign currency revenues . 
On the other hand , the primary sector , especially the agricultural sector , stagnated with annual output growth of 3 percent in the 1960s and 1970s . 
The slow growth of agricultural output is natural given the continued migration of workers from agriculture to manufacturing and from rural to urban areas . 
But the perceived imbalance in jobs and other opportunities between rural and urban areas created social tensions and political pressure increased for policy interventions to revitalize the agricultural sector and rural areas . 
A more important question is whether agricultural productivity improved as hidden unemployment in rural areas decreased . 
In this respect , an important contribution was made by the development of a new local rice variant , known as Tong-il -LRB- unification -RRB- rice , in the early 1970s , which produced a far larger amount of grain per stalk than the traditional variant . 
In addition , machinery and new farming methods were introduced to improve agricultural productivity . 
Traditional farming communities were subject to the Saemaul -LRB- new village -RRB- Movement , which the government organized to modernize rural areas in all aspects from food production to living conditions . 
The goal of the program was to achieve self-sufficiency in grain production , supported by the Green Revolution in crops . 
All these changes led to a large improvement in agricultural productivity , accelerated the migration of workers from rural to urban areas , helped Korea achieve self-sufficiency in food production at least in the case of rice -LRB- Table 3-9 -RRB- , and contributed to increasing rice supplies at a lower price to industrial workers . 
As for fishing , a significant part -LRB- 10 percent -RRB- of reparation payments was invested in this sector and supported The fishing sector growth . 
The fishing sector got a further boost with the Korean - Japanese Fishing Agreement -LRB- 1965 -RRB- , which gave protection to Korean fishing grounds and provided an opportunity for the revival of the fishing industry . 
In time , deep-sea commercial fishing emerged as a new business and became an important foreign currency earner . 
a new business also contributed to the improvement in the nutritional standards of Koreans by providing new sources of protein . 
The large fishing fleets venturing to the far corners of the world were an early source of Korean national pride , although The large fishing fleets venturing to the far corners of the world activities were curbed after 1977 when Korea lost access to important fishing grounds with the declaration of exclusive fishing zones by the U.S. , the Soviet Union and other countries . 
3 . 
2.3 Promoting heavy and chemical industries 
Despite their remarkable success , Korea 's labor-intensive industries showed their limits 
as well . 
The labor-intensive industries were in general specialized in finished goods such as clothes , footwear and electronic appliances , and The labor-intensive industries success led to a huge increase in imports of raw materials , parts and components , and equipment to produce those finished goods . 
The need increased for moving upstream to higher value-added products and deepening Korea 's industrial structure . 
In the 1970s , the Korean government embarked on an ambitious industrial policy to promote HCIs . 
5 The government selected the industries that should be promoted and gave the Korean government financial support . 
the Korean government chose the location and built infrastructure for the industrial complexes to provide the HCI sector with the optimal geographical conditions . 
the Korean government provided policy loans at below-market interest rates to the HCI companies since the HCI companies required a tremendous amount of capital to establish facilities and operate the HCI companies . 
The government also promoted the creation of general trading companies to expand exports for these industries . 
What distinguished the development of the HCI sector in the 1970s from that of the labor-intensive industries in the 1960s was the need for greater energy supplies and the provision of a more skilled labor force and more advanced technology . 
The first priority was securing the energy supplies . 
The government decided to make industrialization reliant on the cheap and plentiful supplies of petroleum , switching away from Korea 's previous focus on coal as the main source of energy . 
When the first oil crisis erupted in 1973 , however , the government renewed The government emphasis on coal . 
The debate on the choice between the policies of `` coal-first-oil-next '' and `` oil-first-coal-next '' underscored that energy had become a contentious issue for the government . 
In the end , Korea was able to absorb the blow since earnings from overseas construction orders , mainly in the Middle East , offset the impact of rising oil prices . 
But in the second oil shock in 1979 , Korea was adversely affected since the country 's energy needs were much greater by then due to the extensive development of the power-hungry HCI industries . 
As a result , the government recognized the need to find new energy sources besides oil to support future industrial development . 
Nuclear energy was seen as one important alternative to oil and a nuclear energy program was successfully launched at this time -LRB- Table 3-10 -RRB- . 
The next task was the acquisition of technology . 
The launch of industrialization required that the relevant technologies should be introduced and developed at an appropriate pace with the country 's economic progress . 
In the beginning , the technology required was usually obtained with turn-key production plants supplied by foreign companies . 
By the 1970s , however , Korea needed more advanced technology , with the result that the focus shifted toward increased training for a technically-skilled workforce and the expansion of domestic R&D capacity . 
Many important state research institutes were established at this time and represented the most significant results of this policy . 
In implementing the HCI program , the Korean government depended heavily on the creativity and dynamism of the private sector . 
Businessman responded to the new challenges and opportunities . 
Their participation made this period legendary in the annals of Korean business . 
There is the story of Tae-joon Park , the head of state-owned POSCO , who created Korea 's steel industry from scratch despite lacking technology , capital and raw materials at the beginning . 
Or the case of Ju-yung Chung , the founder of the Hyundai group , who started Korea 's modern shipbuilding industry by first persuading a group of Greek ship owners to place orders for vessels despite the absence of shipbuilding facilities , and then used the Greek orders to persuade London bankers to provide the capital needed for the construction of the shipyards . 
Opinions are divided regarding the success or failure of the HCI drive . 
On the positive side , many people believe that the positive side contributed decisively to forming the foundation of the majority of key industries that currently support the Korean economy . 
According to the foundation of the majority of key industries that currently support the Korean economy , Korea would never have been able to upgrade Korea industrial structure without the HCI drive . 
But the HCI program also had unexpected negative side effects . 
The fact that low - interest policy loans were devoted to HCIs and related sectors meant that light industries were largely deprived of state financial support and placed at a disadvantage . 
This helped cause the unbalanced growth between HCIs and light industries . 
Another significant result of the HCI program was that the HCI program contributed to the formation of the large business conglomerates , or the chaebol , that still dominate the industrial landscape . 
Many of the future chaebol got Many of the future chaebol start in the light-industrial phase in the 1960s and then expanded into HCIs with government support in the 1970s . 
This led to the concentration of economic power among the chaebol groups , which remains an issue today . 
Another criticism of the HCI program was that the HCI program encouraged investments by the chaebol in the designated industries with little thought given to investments long-term profitability . 
The government 's financial support to the HCI sector resulted in excessive and overlapping investments as the chaebol competed for government assistance . 
The government 's also created the conditions for future corporate insolvencies and had a knock-on effect in terms of hampering the normal development of the banking sector , which had helped finance the HCI investments by the big business groups . 
3 . 
3 Industrial rationalization in the 1980s 
Toward the end of the 1970s , attention was increasingly drawn to the over-capacity and low profitability of HCIs . 
6 In response , the government set out an investment coordination plan as part of the Comprehensive Economic Stabilization Program -LRB- May 1979 -RRB- and implemented the plan in two rounds in 1980 . 
The first round -LRB- August 20 , 1980 -RRB- was targeted at power generator , automobile and construction machinery , whereas the second round -LRB- October 7 , 1980 -RRB- at heavy electric machinery , electronic switchboard , diesel engines and copper smelting . 
In these industries , the investment coordination plan aimed to merge enterprises if there were too many of them ; to reduce excessive capacity and cancel new investments ; and to guarantee monopolies if excessive competition was a worry . 
In addition to the investment coordination , a series of industrial restructuring programs were carried out in the 1980s to help distressed sectors overcome distressed sectors difficulties . 
The shipping industry underwent several rounds of restructuring -LRB- December 1983 , May 1984 , July 1985 and December 1985 -RRB- , in which many shipping companies were merged with the aid of tax benefits and financial support from the government . 
The restructuring of the overseas construction industry began in 1984 and gained speed in 1986 . 
The industrial restructuring of these and other industries had The industrial restructuring of these and other industries legal basis in the Tax Reduction and Exemption Regulation Act -LRB- TRERA -RRB- and the Manufacturing Development Act -LRB- MDA -RRB- . 
These laws enabled the government to designate certain industries for rationalization , provide various tax benefits -LRB- such as exemption from capital gains taxes -RRB- and financial support , and regulate market entry and investment . 
The rationalization period was specified in advance for each industry . 
Nine industries were rationalized after 1985 － automobile -LRB- 1986-1989 -RRB- , construction machinery -LRB- 1986-1988 -RRB- , diesel engine for ships -LRB- 1986-1989 -RRB- , heavy electric machinery -LRB- 1986-1989 -RRB- , alloyed metal -LRB- 1986-1989 -RRB- , textile -LRB- 1986-1997 -RRB- , 7 dyeing -LRB- 1987-1988 -RRB- , fertilizer -LRB- 1987-1990 -RRB- and footwear -LRB- 1992-1995 -RRB- . 
The industrial rationalization program was meant to improve the competitiveness of the industries . 
But The industrial rationalization program success was limited because the government did not adopt reasonable standards in assessing what business categories and companies should be chosen for rationalization . 
In addition , the government failed to monitor the results of corporate asset disposals . 
The industrial rationalization program produced negative side effects as well . 
The industrial rationalization program accelerated the concentration of economic power in the hands of the chaebol , which were the only business enterprises with the financial resources to take over troubled companies . 
In some cases , The industrial rationalization program blocked the entry of new competitors and left key industries under the dominance of a few companies . 
This led to a monopolistic or oligopolistic market structure in many industries . 
More importantly , This represented another example of questionable government intervention in the economy following the HCI drive of the 1970s , which hindered the development of market mechanisms . 
Recognizing these problems , the government changed the government industrial policy in the late 1980s . 
Instead of directly intervening in the market , the government decided to rely more on indirect and functional methods such as R&D support . 
the government also began to liberalize the financial sector . 
But the reliance on the private sector in taking the initiative also had the reliance on the private sector in taking the initiative also share of drawbacks . 
The government failed to keep close tabs on excessive investments by the large industrial groups in the early 1990s as the government sought to expand the government business empires . 
This eventually led to the 1997 financial crisis . 
The fundamental problem lay in the inappropriate sequence of liberalizing the economy before strengthening market discipline by abolishing the risk partnership between the state and the private sector as discussed in Chapter 2 . 
3 . 
4 Responding to new challenges in the 1990s 3 . 
4.1 New challenges 
One can easily recognize two big trends that greatly influenced Korea 's industrial development from the 1990s : technology development and market opening . 
While developed countries wanted to prevent the transfer of advanced technology to newly industrialized nations , including Korea among others , Korea , in turn , had to worry about economic competition posed by a second wave of industrializing countries , such as China and those in Southeast Asia . 
Accordingly , Korea decided the best way to deal with these challenges was to develop new industries based on new technologies , while boosting the productivity of existing industries through the improvement of technology . 
At the same time , the conclusion of the Uruguay Round of global trade negotiations and the subsequent launch of the World Trade Organization in 1995 created further international competitive pressure not only on the manufacturing sector but also on the primary industries and the service sector . 
This represented an unprecedented challenge to the Korean economy . 
3 . 
4.2 Technology development 
There had already been recognition of the importance of technology during the earlier phases of Korea 's industrial development . 
But as developed countries began to withhold advanced technology from Korea , the Korean government and industry decided to step up the Korean government and industry own technology development . 
Since the mid-1990s , Korea has relied more on technologies that Korea developed on Korea own rather than using technology adopted from elsewhere . 
This achievement has been substantially due to the help of the state-financed research institutes that were set up in the 1960s and 1970s to foster development in key industrial sectors . 
the state-financed research institutes that were set up in the 1960s and 1970s to foster development in key industrial sectors took the lead in developing home-grown technology , with the launch of full-scale efforts in the 1980s . 
the state-financed research institutes that were set up in the 1960s and 1970s to foster development in key industrial sectors have also been the source of well-trained researchers who have gone on to companies and universities to continue R&D programs as well as conducting joint research projects with the state institutes . 
In the 1980s , private enterprises also began R&D activities with government support and participated in many national R&D projects promoted by the government . 
Since the 1990s , Korean enterprises have been able to expand Korean enterprises own R&D efforts and created a number of private-sector research institutes . 
The expansion of corporate R&D activities enhanced The expansion of corporate R&D activities ability to develop core technologies needed to gain self-reliance in such new sectors as semiconductors and telecommunications as well as existing key industries . 
Although the R&D efforts of universities were minimal in comparison until the beginning of the 1990s , various national R&D projects after that were started to stimulate basic research activities at the universities and led to the establishment and support of various university research centers . 
Technology development in the 1990s focused on the information and communication technology -LRB- ICT -RRB- sector , which rapidly expanded and encouraged more private-sector initiatives in this area . 
The rise of ICT-related industries in the 1990s represented an important turning point in Korea 's industrial development . 
It showed that Korea was able to compete in a rapidly changing international environment and that economic development was no longer dependent on a state-directed industrial policy . 
The success of the ICT sector also helped create a new development vision for Korean HCIs just as Korean HCIs were emerging from the period of industrial rationalization and were searching for ways to achieve future-oriented growth . 
Moreover , this period was notable for the fact that Korea was weaning Korea 's from adopting technology from advanced countries and instead was beginning to develop Korea 's own . 
In this way , the new advanced technology industries introduced structural changes in Korean industry by being able to cope with new challenges in various areas . 
Until then , Korean industries had not been able to respond adequately to these challenges due to an inefficient industrial structure as well as the lack of technological expertise and other assets compared to advanced countries . 
Korea 's bid for technological leadership focused on developing the new materials and bio-industry sectors in addition to ICT . 
But the ICT industry was better able to make gains than the other sectors due to government support . 
Korea made rapid progress in the ICT sector , including the creation of an information - based society that was among the most advanced in the world . 
For example , the personal computer was developed by IBM in 1978 , but the personal computer mass distribution in the U.S. only began in 1981 . 
the personal computer was only two years later when Samsung Electronics was distributing Samsung Electronics own personal computers in Korea , starting in 1983 . 
In the telecommunications sector , Korea had been far behind advanced countries in establishing fixed-line phone networks , but Korea caught up with the rest of the world quickly when Korea came to mobile phones . 
Korea was not far behind the U.S. in introducing the internet and in some respects soon overtook the U.S. in terms of establishing a more extensive broadband internet network . 
Korea also proved to be on the cutting edge in developing or adopting other information and communication technologies . 
Samsung Electronics was the first in the world to develop 256 megabit DRAMs . 
In other remarkable initiatives , Korea developed the TDX telephone switching technology and CDMA wireless system . 
These research breakthroughs were partly due to government efforts to create an efficient national telecommunications infrastructure . 
With the establishment of the Ministry of Information and Communication -LRB- MIC -RRB- in 1994 , the government sought to create a `` national information super-highway '' based on high-speed broadband internet access . 
These goals were supported by the MIC 's Informatization Promotion Fund , which aided the rapid growth of the ICT sector . 
These developments took place against the background of two noticeable investment trends . 
One was that R&D investments , mainly spurred by technology development , increased to 2.4 percent of GDP in 1997 from 1.7 percent in 1990 . 
The second was that private-sector R&D spending now accounted for 70-80 percent of total R&D investments in Korea , a sharp reversal of the government 's previous dominant role in the area . 
The number of private research institutes soared to 7,100 in 2000 from less than 1,000 in 1990 , signifying that technology development was now mainly being driven by the private sector . 
As a result , Korea has emerged at the forefront of the global semiconductor industry , while the number of patents applied by Korea 's private sector has increased at an explosive rate . 
Development of ICT industries 
The take-off of Korea 's ICT sector can be largely credited to the companies that improved the competitiveness of various advanced ICT products , including semiconductors , liquid crystal displays and mobile phones among others . 
Owing to quick and aggressive investments in R&D and production , quick and aggressive investments in R&D and production could reach quick and aggressive investments in R&D and production present dominant global position . 
quick and aggressive investments in R&D and production are now posed to lead the evolution of the global ICT industry in the future . 
quick and aggressive investments in R&D and production were the global leader in the LCD market with a 46.5 percent share in 2008 . 
Korea held the second largest market share of mobile phones in the first quarter of 2009 and Korea 's ranked third in the global semiconductor market , including being the world 's leading producer of memory chips in 2008 . 
Korean companies anticipated the growth of the PC industry , the acceleration of digitalization and the growth of wireless communication services , which led Korean companies to focus intensively on the development of semiconductors , LCDs and mobile phones . 
For example , the Korea Electronics Technology Research Institute received a 2.9 million dollar grant from the World Bank in 1979 to develop semiconductors . 
This stood Korea in good stead when Apple released the first personal computers in 1978 , which was followed by the IBM personal computers using the MS-DOS operating system in 1981 . 
In December 1983 , Samsung succeeded in developing and producing 64-megabit DRAM chips . 
Since then , Samsung has become a global leader through aggressive R&D and investments , such as being the first company to develop the 256 - megbit DRAM in 1994 . 
Another major reason for Korea 's growing power in the ICT sector was the effort by the government to actively promote the building of ICT infrastructure , which facilitated widespread ICT usage . 
The ICT industry was also fostered by the government 's competition , informatization and industrial development policies . 
This shows that cooperation between business and government was beneficial in commercializing new products and services , while revealing business and government ability to cope with rapid changes in the ICT environment in a prompt manner . 
3 . 
4.3 Market opening 
The launch of the WTO system , Korea 's entry into the OECD and the 1997 Asian financial crisis led to the wider opening of the Korean market , which posed new challenges for Korean businesses . 
The market opening provided new opportunities for Korean manufacturers that had already been exposed to international competition but the Korean market , which posed new challenges for Korean businesses caused difficulties for the primary sector industries , such as agriculture and fishing , which were forced to restructure -LRB- DoHoon Kim et al. , 2005 -RRB- . 
Globalization trends in the world economy had earlier encouraged Korean manufacturers to focus on export markets rather than depend on a domestic market with limited demand . 
Now Korean manufacturers are taking the next step in `` industrial globalization '' by establishing production facilities overseas . 
This has contributed to the increased competitiveness of Korean industry in their respective sectors . 
Korea now ranks among the top five countries when it comes to automobiles , shipbuilding , electronics and steel . 
In turn , this resulted in management improvements of Korean companies that made Korean companies first-class organizations . 
Korea 's success in embracing the globalization process is borne out by the fact that the number of Korean companies reaching global status continues to increase . 
The rapid globalization of Korean business , however , has also produced adverse side effects . 
The relationship between domestic-oriented businesses and those focused on exports weakened , leading to a `` bipolarization of industries . '' 
The result was that even if exports were booming , some companies relying on domestic demand did not benefit . 
The result also contributed to the `` jobless growth '' that first appeared in advanced countries in the 1980s , but then emerged in Korea in the 1990s . 
The number of jobs in Korea that exporting industries previously created dwindled as more production facilities went overseas . 
The market opening had The market opening most severe impact on the agriculture and fishery sectors . 
Pessimistic predictions about the future of these sectors in the wake of increased foreign competition accelerated the reallocation of resources to industrial sectors . 
The import of cheap agricultural and fishery products also caused changes in demand patterns , while reducing domestic self-sufficiency in food production . 
The foreign competition forced a fall in the price of domestic agricultural and fishery products , adding to the sectors ' disruption . 
Farmers and fishermen often responded to new market-opening measures by holding street protests , with no real gains to Farmers and fishermen and the country . 
The Asian financial crisis in the late 1990s increased pressure on the Korean industry to restructure . 
Some industries , such as ICT , emerged stronger from the crisis and were better able to compete internationally . 
But the of agriculture and fishing industries , along with the labor-intensive light industries in textiles and footwear , faced a harsh and difficult future . 
3 . 
5 In search of new growth engines in the 2000s 
The biggest challenge for Korean industry in the 2000s is how to deal with restructuring between industries that are able to handle the changes resulting from market opening and technological advancement and those industries that have trouble dealing with these challenges . 
In addition , there is the need to effectively select and develop future growth engines . 
In light of the country 's resources and industrial structure , it is generally agreed that the Korean government and business should focus on advanced technology industries , parts and materials sector , and knowledge-based service industries as the sources of future growth . 
These new growth industries are not only expected to play the leading role in forging the future of the Korean economy , but also influence the development of existing industries . 
In addition , the `` green growth '' economic strategy for the next 60 years as outlined by the Lee Myung-bak administration is expected to influence the future growth of some industries . 
From the early 2000s , Korea started to foster the development of new advanced industries under such programs as `` next-generation growth engine businesses , '' `` basic development plan for bio-technology , '' `` comprehensive development project for nano - related technology , `` and `` development plan for convergence technology . '' 
These efforts will require large financial investments and long lead times since Korea now lacks the core technologies in these areas . 
The 21st century will be the era of `` system competition , '' where individual industries will work closely with individual industries parts and materials suppliers and related sectors to enhance individual industries competitiveness . 
But the parts and materials industry is one of the weakest points of Korea 's industrial structure . 
To promote this industry , Korea initially focused on import substitution and localization in this area , and then encouraged building up global distribution bases under the Special Act for Assisting Specialized Firms in Parts and Materials -LRB- 2001 -RRB- . 
The Act also set up an institutional framework by which the Korean government can concentrate policy efforts on developing parts and materials . 
Of course , the manufacturing sector alone can not lead the Korean economy in the future . 
The country already entered the period of de-industrialization in the 1990s . 
With the `` tertiarization '' of the economy gaining pace , it is necessary to cultivate service industries as new growth engines . 
The government has prepared comprehensive measures since the mid-2000s to improve the competitiveness of service industries . 
The government has focused on developing knowledge-based service industries , which include most categories of high value-added services . 
In addition , the green growth industries that have been highlighted by the Lee Myung - bak administration represent another future growth engine and are expected to perform well due to concerns about global climate change . 
The efforts will be focused on investing in green technology and developing new renewable energy sources , upgrading production facilities to meet higher environmental standards , and reducing harmful emissions by promoting the more efficient use of energy . 
However , the focus on developing new growth engines should not distract from the task of also nurturing the future development of existing industries . 
First , in the case of primary industries , the challenge is difficult since the agriculture and fishing sectors are burdened with an aging workforce . 
Competitive pressures are likely to increase on these sectors with the signing of more free trade agreements that will entail further market-opening measures . 
It will be necessary to identify agricultural segments that can remain competitive as well as find future growth engines among the primary sector industries . 
Manufacturing has played the leading role in the development of the Korean economy and is likely to continue to do so . 
However , it is affected by the `` bi-polarization phenomenon , `` characterized by the gap between exporting and domestic-oriented industries , and between large corporations and SMEs . 
Manufacturing faces other structural issues , such as a heavy dependence on parts and materials from Japan and the increased competition from China and other newly industrializing countries . 
In the energy sector , the need to improve energy efficiency and secure new energy sources represents the biggest challenge . 
The push for international agreements on climate change has made green growth a high priority for the government . 
This underscores the importance of energy efficiency , nuclear energy development , and renewable energy as major issues in Korea 's industrial development . 
This is also putting pressure on the restructuring of energy industries , including that of the electricity power sector . 
The slowdown in the growth of industries in the ICT sector has been matched by acceleration in the convergence of ICT businesses with those of other industries . 
Future economic productivity will depend more on technology convergence , including that between broadcasting and telecommunications , rather than the growth of the ICT sector alone . 
As for science and technology , Korea has reached the level where Korea can be at the forefront of global efforts in making scientific and technological breakthroughs . 
But for this to happen , Korea must create leading-edge research groups and create an institutional framework that encourages the development and retention of top talents . 
There is also the need to reform the current university system , while encouraging leading foreign universities to cooperate with domestic educational institutions . 
This must be complemented by fostering the development of technology-focused SMEs , the creation of a high-tech parts and components sector , and the formation of regional technology innovation centers . 
There is also the need to promote efficient cooperation among industries , universities and research institutes in terms of developing advanced technology . 
Finally , and perhaps most importantly , there is a need to create the proper conditions for entrepreneurs . 
It is entrepreneurs that should take charge in the future in solving many of the problems when it comes to industrial and technological developments . 
Entrepreneurship is also important in fostering the growth of SMEs and start-up firms . 
4 . 
Conclusion 
In the last 60 years , Korea was able to achieve a phenomenal economic growth through a rapid industrialization process . 
Primary industries that dominated the Korean economy up to the 1950s gave way first to labor-intensive industries in the 1960s and then to capital - intensive industries in the 1970s , and now knowledge-based industries are leading the economy . 
These structural changes followed the pattern of development in advanced countries , but at a much faster rate . 
The progress was made possible not only by the massive mobilization of labor and capital but also by the heavy investment in technology at each level of development and the flexible reallocation of resources from less to more productive sectors . 
Foreign trade played a pivotal role in this aspect by encouraging innovation and accelerating resource reallocation . 
It also enabled Korea to learn from advanced countries and take advantage of the vastly expanded global market . 
Entrepreneurs responded to changing circumstances by committing Entrepreneurs to pioneering new markets and new products . 
The government provided institutional and physical infrastructure essential for The government activities . 
One distinguishing feature of Korea 's industrialization process is that Korea 's industrialization process has depended critically on the dynamism of the private sector . 
The government intervened in the market heavily but relied mostly on private enterprises for the actual implementation of the projects , taking full advantage of Korea 's creativity and minimizing deadweight costs associated with bureaucratic control . 
This was true even at the height of the HCI drive . 
Since the 1980s , as the government intervention receded , the private sector has been playing an even greater role in innovation and market expansion . 
Many tasks lie ahead for Korea to sustain Korea growth and adapt Korea industrial structure to changing environments . 
Efforts are needed to develop new growth engines in such areas as the advanced technology sector , parts and materials , and knowledge-based service industries . 
It is also important to enhance the competitiveness of SMEs and domestic - oriented industries and to reconcile industrial development with environmental protection . 
Most of these tasks are the responsibility of the private sector , on whose dynamism the Korean economy will continue to depend . 
This does not mean , however , that the government has no part in this venture . 
The government can indeed facilitate or debilitate the industrial development . 
What is needed is not picking winners and saving losers in the old-fashioned way , but getting the processes right as Rodrik -LRB- 2004 -RRB- emphasizes . 
This argues that industrial policy should be a discovery process where firms and the government learn about underlying costs and opportunities and engage in strategic coordination . 
Now that Korea has significantly narrowed the technological gap with advanced countries and in some cases is leading the industry , the uncertainty surrounding investment outcomes is much larger and the government is nearly incapable of picking winners . 
Korea role now lies in finding and eliminating obstacles to entrepreneurship , correcting market failures -LRB- positive externalities in particular -RRB- , and supplying high-quality manpower , all in close consultation with market participants . 
All government interventions should be based on sound economic analyses , have clear criteria for success and failure , and target activities but not sectors . 
Indeed , these are exactly what the Korean government did in the 1960s with the Korean government export promotion program . 
the Korean government eliminated rent-seeking opportunities and encouraged positive-sum activities by entrepreneurs with the exchange rate reform -LRB- Jones and SaKong , 1980 -RRB- . 
the Korean government provided export subsidies , which can be considered as a compensation for the knowledge spillover -LRB- positive externalities -RRB- exporters generated for other domestic producers by finding new markets or products . 
The subsidies were given in proportion to the export performance , which acted as a clear and objective criterion for success . 
export subsidies , which can be considered as a compensation for the knowledge spillover -LRB- positive externalities -RRB- exporters generated for other domestic producers by finding new markets or products were also given to all export activities regardless of the sectors or industries . 
The government held a monthly cabinet-level meeting with representatives from the private sector to discuss and solve export-related problems . 
The government also focused on education and training to support export industries . 
When industrial policy is taken simply as handing out subsidies to the targeted sector without due regard to the targeted sector potentially adverse impact on entrepreneurial spirits , it often degenerates into grounds for rent-seeking and results in expensive failure . 
The problem turns even more serious when the government lacks clear ideas about the nature of the market failure to be addressed , objective criteria for success and failure , or a tightly structured coordination mechanism between the government and the private sector . 
In fact , industrial policy is gaining popularity after the recent global financial crisis , but not all countries are keenly aware of the government dangers as well as potentials -LRB- The Economist , August 7 , 2010 -RRB- . 
In this respect , the Korean government should resist the temptation to designate certain industries as `` strategic '' and provide the Korean government with subsidies in the name of industrial policy . 
Rather , future efforts must be directed at encouraging innovation through regulatory reform and external liberalization , correcting market failures where future efforts exist , strengthening the analytic capability within the government , securing a well-functioning communication channel with the private sector , and upgrading the education system . 
1 . 
Introduction 
Over the past six decades , Korea experienced rapid growth and industrialization . 
During this period , international trade played a critically important role and the government heavily intervened in the market , especially in the 1960s and 1970s . 
For this reason , Korea 's growth is often characterized as `` export-led '' and `` government-led . '' 
Given that the prevailing wisdom on economic development had been a preference for import - substitution industrialization and trade protection , Korea 's experience raises interesting questions . 
How important was the export promotion policy in Korea 's economic development ? 
What was the relationship between the exchange rate and trade growth ? 
What were Korea 's policies on bilateral and multilateral trade relations and foreign investment ? 
How did Korea manage the opening of Korea 's agricultural , services and financial markets ? 
What are the challenges ahead for Korea in international economic policy ? 
These are some of the questions this chapter tries to answer . 
This chapter consists of nine sections , including the introduction and conclusion . 
Section 2 discusses the exchange rate and trade policies in the 1960s and 1970s , when the rapid expansion of Korea 's exports suddenly began . 
During these decades , Korea , one of the poorest countries in the world , transformed Korea , one of the poorest countries in the world , from an agrarian and stagnant economy into an industrialized and dynamic one with a rapidly rising per capita income . 
Section 3 considers the evolution of trade policies starting in the 1980s , which deepened the integration of Korea in the global economy . 
The remaining sections discuss specific policy issues . 
The fourth section examines policies affecting both inward and outward foreign direct investment . 
The fifth examines Korea 's bilateral and regional economic cooperation , development assistance , and related policies . 
The sixth section deals with the controversial issue of Korea 's agricultural trade liberalization , and the seventh discusses liberalization in the services sector . 
The eighth section examines financial liberalization in the foreign exchange and capital markets . 
2 . 
The early evolution of international economic policy from the 1950s to 1970s 
2 . 
1 Overview 
After the liberation from Japan in 1945 , Korea experienced major economic chaos as Japanese businessmen , managers and technicians returned home . 
In 1950 , the Korean War broke out , destroying roughly 42-44 percent of production facilities in South Korea -LRB- Kim and Roemer , 1979 -RRB- . 
Aid from the UN and the U.S. was crucial in the reconstruction of the South Korean economy . 
During 1945-1950 , a total of 585 million dollars in aid was provided by the U.S. -LRB- Government and Relief in Occupied Areas , or GARIOA , and the Economic Cooperation Administration , or ECA -RRB- and the UN -LRB- Civil Relief in Korea , or CRIK , and the United Nations Korean Reconstruction Agency , or UNKRA -RRB- . 
1 Aid from the U.S. and UN kept Korea supplied with daily necessities , construction materials and fertilizer . 
In the second half of the 1950s , Korea 's exports averaged 20 million dollars per year and imports 370 million dollars . 
The trade deficits were financed by foreign aid , mostly from the U.S. as shown in Table 4-1 , and the economy suffered from a severe shortage of foreign exchange . 
It was against this backdrop that Korea 's foreign exchange rate and trade policy evolved . 
In the 1950s , Korea 's trade policy was highly protectionist . 
Beginning in the mid - 1960s , the Korean government focused on export promotion and this has been a top priority in economic policy since then . 
At the same time , Korea began to liberalize Korea 's import regime , although Korea 's suffered some setbacks in the 1970s . 
From the early 1980s , the governmen 's promotion of import liberalization began in earnest and tariffs were reduced unilaterally . 
This section discusses the foreign exchange and trade policies in the 1950s , how rapid export expansion began in the early 1960s , and how trade policy evolved in the 1960s and 1970s . 
This section also attempts to assess the effects of these policies and interpret what happened in Korea during these two decades , to determine if indeed the experience may be characterized as `` export-led '' and `` government-led . '' 
2 . 
2 Foreign exchange rate and trade policies in the 1950s 
The importance of the foreign exchange rate to an economy , and in particular , to its foreign trade can not be overstated . 
If the domestic currency is overvalued , all domestic goods and services would be over-priced in the global market ; similarly , if the domestic currency is undervalued , all the goods and services would be under-priced . 
This subsection first discusses the changes in Korea 's foreign exchange rate policy , focusing on the period from the Korean War to the early 1960s . 
`` An official rate was set at 0.015 won to one US dollar in October 1945 , equivalent to the yen exchange rate in Japan . '' 
2 This was the start of the won-dollar exchange rate . 
The rate , however , did not play an important role until after the end of Korean War as foreign trade amounted to barter trade until then . 
In the meantime , an event took place that profoundly affected the exchange rate policy . 
In July 1950 , shortly after the outbreak of the war , a financial agreement was made between the Korean and U.S. governments in relation to the UN forces dispatched to the Korean peninsula . 
Under the agreement , the Korean government would advance won to the United Nations Command -LRB- UNC -RRB- for the Korean government expenditures in Korea , which would be paid back in dollars . 
3 
The agreement meant that the higher the value of the won was to the dollar , the greater amount of dollars the Korean government would receive for the won the Korean government had advanced . 
This seemed to dominate all other considerations in the exchange rate policy , which is not surprising since dollar redemption for won advances was the most important source of foreign exchange supply . 
4 Prior to the agreement , the monetary authority appears to have been concerned about currency overvaluation , but afterwards the exchange rate policy was aimed at keeping won valuation as high as possible . 
In the short period from August 1948 when the Korean government was established , to July 1950 when the agreement was made , there were four devaluations and a bidding system was introduced . 
For the next ten years until February 1960 , there were only four devaluations . 
Inevitably this policy led to a tug-of-war between the Korean and U.S. governments over the exchange rate , as the exchange rate policy was in the U.S. interest to have the won fall in value . 
Thus in the 1950s , the official exchange rate always kept the domestic currency overvalued . 
The extent of overvaluation is shown in Table 4-2 that compares the official rate with the market rate . 
The market rate came into being as exporters deposited exporters earnings at the Bank of Korea in dollar-denominated accounts under the Foreign Exchange Deposit System , which was in effect until 1961 , and traded the certificates of deposits in the market . 
Besides the official rate and the market rate , there were numerous other exchange rates depending on different allocation schemes for dollars that the Korean government obtained through the sale of won to the UNC and exports of tungsten that the government directly handled . 
The allocation schemes included `` special foreign exchange loans , '' `` bidding , '' `` lottery '' '' and `` modified bidding system '' among others . 
The import policy began when an import and export licensing system was introduced in 1946 , under which the government simply announced the items that could and could not be imported , with no quantitative controls in place . 
The import policy was replaced by the Import Quota System in 1949 , which specified not only the items that could be imported but also the quantity . 
In 1955 , the Trade Program -LRB- Import Program -RRB- was instituted , a positive-list system that listed `` approved import items , '' which were divided into `` automatically approved items '' and `` restricted items . '' 
If there was sufficient domestic production of some items to meet domestic demand , then the import of these goods was prohibited . 
If the domestic production of some products could not fully meet domestic demand , then the import of these goods was either automatically approved or restricted . 
The Ministry of Commerce and Industry had the discretion to allow imports of the prohibited or restricted items . 
As is evident , the trade policy was protectionist and was in line with the import-substitution strategy that was in vogue at the time . 
Tariffs rose in the 1950s . 
In 1946 , the tariff rate was set at a uniform rate of 10 percent on all goods except those financed by foreign assistance . 
In 1950 , a new law on customs duties raised the average tariff rate to 40 percent to increase tariff revenue and protect domestic industries . 
The new tariff rates were lower on food , raw materials and essential goods with little domestic production , higher on unfinished goods competing with domestically produced goods and highest on finished goods competing with domestically produced ones . 
In 1952 , the government introduced tariff exemptions on imports of capital equipment required for certain major industries , including electric power , shipbuilding , metal working , machinery , chemicals , oil refining , textiles , mining and fishing . 
In 1957 , individual tariff rates were changed somewhat and the average tariff rate rose by about 4.1 percent . 
But the tariff structure remained basically unaltered . 
In terms of export policy , there were initially export controls to prevent the export of essential domestic products . 
A few export promotion measures were taken during the 1950s , mostly of the nature of softening the negative effects of the strong currency on exports . 
One of the earliest promotion measures was the Trade Credit System -LRB- later known as the Export Credit System -RRB- introduced in 1950 , under which exporters enjoyed priority in the allocation of domestic credits . 
Another early measure was the Preferential Export System , adopted in 1951 , under which the exporters of so-called non-essential products enjoyed the right to use a certain percent of foreign exchange earnings for importing popular items , which otherwise could not be imported . 
From 1950 to 1954 , exporters enjoyed preferential access to foreign exchange loans in a scheme that allocated government-held foreign exchange reserves -LRB- KFX -RRB- to domestic users . 
In 1955 , direct subsidies were provided to the exporters , but the program was discontinued the following year as the government failed to obtain funding for the program in the budget . 
Tariff exemptions were introduced in 1959 on imports of raw materials and intermediate goods for export products , and it was changed into a tariff rebate in 1974 . 
Finally , the trader registration system under the Trade Transaction Act of 1957 encouraged exports requiring that a trader should export a certain minimum amount of goods to be registered as an importer . 
2 . 
3 The beginning of rapid export expansion in the early 1960s 
Exports began to expand rapidly in the early 1960s , with exports growing by 40 percent per year on average in current dollars and reaching 835 million dollars in 1970 , more than 40 times as large as in the 1950s . 
As a result , the export/GNP ratio rose from less than 1 percent in 1959 to more than 10 percent in 1970 . 
The rapid expansion of exports continued over the next decades . 
This subsection attempts to date the beginning of this trend and discuss the reasons . 
The rapid expansion of exports was so sudden that it is possible to date the beginning with the help of Table 4-3 and Figure 4-1 , which breaks down total exports into three groups ; two subgroups of manufactures and non-manufactures . 
The first of the two manufacturing subgroups comprises goods belonging to SITC -LRB- Standard International Trade Classification -RRB- 6 and 8 . 
SITC 6 , `` manufactured goods chiefly classified by material , '' includes textile products , leather products , rubber products , etc. and SITC 8 , `` miscellaneous manufactured articles , '' includes clothing , footwear , travel goods , etc. . 
This subgroup consists mostly of labor-intensive `` light '' manufactures . 
The other subgroup is the sum of SITC 5 and SITC 7 , the former being `` chemicals '' and the latter `` machinery and transport equipment . '' 
This second manufacturing subgroup consists mostly of more capital-intensive and more technologically sophisticated manufactures than the first subgroup . 
Non-manufactures include the products from the agricultural , fishing and mining industries . 
As shown in the figure , in the 1950s almost all Korea 's exports were non-manufactures . 
Afterwards , this share declined to around 20 percent by 1970 as the share of manufactures rapidly increased . 
In particular , the share of labor-intensive , light manufactures -LRB- SITC 6 +8 -RRB- rose from around 10 percent in the early 1960s to 70 percent of the total in the late 1960s . 
This characterized the early expansion of Korea 's exports . 
For this reason , This seems appropriate to pick year 1962 , when the share of light manufactures in total exports began to increase and continued to increase thereafter , as the start date for Korea 's rapid export expansion . 
What were the reasons for the sudden , rapid increase in exports of light manufactures ? 
Since there were new export promotion measures introduced in the early 1960s , one should ask if new export promotion measures introduced in the early 1960s were the reason . 
An income tax reduction of 30 percent was introduced in 1961 for exporters , which was raised to 50 percent the next year . 
Direct subsidies were provided from 1961 to 1963 . 
In 1962 , `` export targets '' were established , which turned out to be much lower than what was actually achieved . 
In addition , the Korea Trade Promotion Agency -LRB- KOTRA -RRB- was founded in 1962 to assist exporters by gathering information on new foreign markets . 
However , these measures , though numerous , do not appear to have been the main reason for the sudden and rapid export expansion as these measures , though numerous , did not add much to exporters ' earnings . 
This can be seen in Figure 4-2 , which shows earnings per dollar of exports in real terms from 1958 to 1970 , with 1965 as the base year . 
This breaks the exporters ' earnings into three components : official exchange rate ; the premium on export dollars , that is , the difference between the official and market exchange rate ; and export subsidies . 
According to this figure , export subsidies accounted for a negligible portion of exporters ' earnings in real terms in the early 1960s . 
Furthermore , the figure shows that the earnings per dollar of exports were declining in the early 1960s when rapid export expansion began . 
Therefore , the availability of export incentives can not explain the sudden and rapid export expansion . 
On the other hand , the most noticeable change in Figure 4-2 is that the premium on the export dollar in the preceding years drastically shrank in 1961 and disappeared in 1962 . 
This was the direct result of three devaluations that took place in a span of one year between February 1960 and February 1961 . 
The devaluations changed the official exchange rate from 50 won to the dollar to 130 won to the dollar , nearly eliminating the won 's overvaluation . 
This can also be seen in the comparison of official and market exchange rates in Table 4-2 and Annex table 2 . 
Once most of the won 's overvaluation was eliminated and the official exchange rate began to send correct price signals , the export of light manufactures took off and increased at a pace no one thought possible . 
2 . 
4 Trade and exchange rate policies since the mid-1960s 
The successful rise in exports greatly affected export policies . 
6 In June 1964 , the Korean government adopted the Comprehensive Export Promotion Program , which attempted to place export promotion in a comprehensive and consistent framework , since previous promotion measures were piecemeal and improvised in nature . 
The program extended policy support to export production as well as exports exports themselves . 
It may be regarded as much as an industrial policy as a trade policy since an industrial policy as a trade policy attempted to pick and promote export industries . 
Credit incentives were greatly expanded by increasing the number of types and volume of loans for exports that offered preferential interest rates . 
7 Even under the financial reform in 1965 that nearly doubled the bank deposit rate for savers , preferential interest rates for exporters were further reduced . 
In 1965 , generous `` wastage allowances '' were introduced , which allowed the exporters to import inputs for generous `` wastage allowances '' production over and above established needs . 
Since this was applied to intermediate goods and raw materials , import of which was limited or subject to high duties , the unused portion could be sold in the domestic market for profit . 
Also in 1965 , a system of local letters of credit -LRB- L/Cs -RRB- was introduced , which exporters could issue to domestic producers of export goods and intermediate inputs on the basis of the export L/Cs exporters received . 
The domestic producers with local L/Cs enjoyed the same benefits that exporters did with respect to preferential loans , import licenses , tax favors and so on . 
Also in 1965 , President Park Chung-hee began to preside over the Monthly Export Promotion Meeting attended by various economic ministers , the Bank of Korea governor , the heads of KOTRA , the Korea International Trade Association -LRB- KITA -RRB- and the Korea Chamber of Commerce , the chief executives of banks and financial institutions , the chairmen of leading export firms , and trade experts . 
These changes in policy represented an all-out effort by the government for export promotion . 
In addition to the export promotion measures already mentioned , various policies and institutions were created for exporters . 
The export insurance system was introduced in 1969 to compensate exporters , producers and foreign investors for possible losses from credit risks -LRB- i.e. , the bankruptcy of importers -RRB- and political risks -LRB- such as wars and foreign currency trade restrictions -RRB- . 
In addition to the founding of KOTRA in 1962 , KITA , which was established in 1946 to represent the interests of traders , has played a critical role in pioneering overseas markets , promoting cooperation with partner trade organizations in the private sector , conducting surveys and providing related information . 
Responding to the need for medium - to long-term credit for exports and imports the Export-Import Bank of Korea was established in 1976 , and the Export-Import Bank of Korea has been providing export loans and trade finance , and facilitating economic cooperation with foreign countries . 
The exchange rate policy also came to be linked to export promotion . 
In May 1964 , the government undertook a major devaluation of the won from 130 to 256.5 to the dollar and dropped measures intended to offset the adverse effects of an overvalued currency , such as direct subsidies and the full-scale export-import link . 
In March 1965 , the government implemented the unitary floating exchange rate system , which had been announced at the time of devaluation . 
Under the new system , the Bank of Korea announced the exchange rate every day on the basis of exchange certificate prices quoted in the free exchange market . 
From this point on , the unitary exchange rate system was maintained and managed by the government . 
From 1968 , a gradual devaluation of won was allowed until 1971 when another abrupt devaluation took place . 
Import policy was gradually liberalized from the mid-1960s , as the balance of payments improved . 
The number of items eligible for importation increased substantially thereafter , while the number of prohibited items declined . 
Korea joined the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade -LRB- GATT -RRB- in 1967 , and the negative-list Trade Program was adopted in 1967 . 
The import liberalization ratio , the proportion of automatically approved items in total import items , rose from 12 to 60 percent . 
Korea also began to scale down export promotion measures in the early 1970s . 
For example , the reduction of income tax on export earnings was abolished in 1972 , and the tariff exemption on imports of raw material for export production was changed to a tariff rebate system in 1975 . 
Import policy may be graphically summarized as in Figure 4-3 , which shows the average tariff rates and `` quantitative restriction '' liberalization index , the latter being the ratio of the number of automatically approved items over total importable items . 
2 . 
5 . 
An interpretation of the impact of government policies 
What remains to be done in this section is to interpret the experience of Korea 's export success . 
The conventional view is that the policy switch from import substitution to export promotion led to Korea 's export success . 
This view leaves the impression that this success was due to government intervention in terms of export promotion . 
But it is too simple an explanation . 
The reality was more complicated . 
First of all , as was discussed earlier , three devaluations triggered the rapid export expansion and the devaluations were rather accidental in nature . 
In February 1960 , the Korean government reluctantly accepted the first of the three devaluations , because the Korean government 's had agreed with the U.S. government to change the exchange rate in accordance with the price index . 
In October 1960 , the Korean government accepted the second devaluation suggested by the U.S. government , when the two governments resumed aid and economic cooperation that had been temporarily suspended at the time of Student Revolution , which ousted the Rhee government in April 1960 . 
The last of the three devaluations , which was the Korean government 's own decision , would have been very difficult without the previous two . 
Viewed in this light , it is difficult to say that the three devaluations that triggered the rapid export expansion were the result of a government decision to promote exports . 
Clearly , the first two devaluations were not . 
Secondly , the policy switch from import substitution to export promotion happened after rapid export expansion had already begun . 
The first Five-Year Economic Development Plan , which was adopted by the new military government in 1961 , still placed a high priority on import substitution and considered exports as a mere remedy for the foreign exchange shortage . 
However , a sharp turnaround in the policy took place and can be observed in the new version of the first Five-Year Plan , which was revised in 1964 after the rapid export expansion had begun . 
The revised plan now explicitly stated that promotion of exports and export industries was the policy goal . 
This was followed by the government 's all-out efforts for export promotion , as discussed above . 
Thus , the beginning of rapid export expansion led to the switch in policy in the mid-1960s from import substitution to export promotion , not the other way round . 
Nevertheless , the decision to make the policy switch deserves applause since the decision to make the policy switch enabled export expansion to continue thereafter . 
To see why , the decision to make the policy switch needs to be recalled that protectionism has the effect of depressing exports , first , by making domestic sales profitable relative to exports and therefore attracting resources to domestic production , and secondly , by depressing the demand for foreign exchange and thereby leading to currency appreciation . 
As Figure 4-3 shows , the import policy was highly protectionist during the 1960s and 1970s . 
When the import policy decided on export promotion in the mid-1960s , the government did not drop the protectionist policy of the 1950s , which had been adopted for import - substitution industrialization . 
So , in the 1960s and 1970s the government was in fact simultaneously pursuing two policies that worked at cross-purposes . 
From the producers ' point of view , export promotion made exports more attractive than domestic sales , and trade protection made domestic sales more attractive than exports . 
Thus a question arises : which one of the two policies had a stronger effect and what was the net result ? 
This question was quantitatively investigated by Westphal and Kim -LRB- 1982 -RRB- , and the authors came to the conclusion that the effects of the two policies on Korean producers nearly offset each other in the late 1960s . 
In other words , the incentives that the producers faced were virtually neutral between exports and domestic sales . 
The accuracy of the quantitative estimates of the policy effect may be debated , but there is no question that export promotion must have been neutralizing the export-depressing effects of protectionism to a considerable extent , if not completely . 
Therefore , it would be simply wrong to explain the rapid export expansion as the consequence of the export promotion policy since the export promotion policy ignores the fact that a negative influence was being exerted on exports by the protectionist policy . 
In addition , attention needs be paid to unintended consequences . 
Export promotion and trade protectionism jointly had the effect of raising the prices of traded goods vis-a-vis ‵ non-traded services , making the manufacturing sector more attractive to productive resources than the service sector . 
Indeed , export expansion was facilitated by increased investments made in the manufacturing sector than in other sectors as export expansion attracted capital from the rest of the economy . 
The experience with export expansion in the 1960s and 1970s indicates that Korea had a comparative advantage in labor-intensive light manufactures , as the country was resource - poor and labor-abundant . 
But this export potential had been suppressed by two impediments to trade , namely , an overvalued currency and a protectionist import regime . 
As soon as the first impediment was removed by the three devaluations , exports of labor - intensive light manufactures began to expand explosively in the early 1960s . 
In the following years , the government 's all-out efforts for export promotion neutralized the second impediment of the protectionist import regime by offsetting the negative effects on exports . 
3 . 
Expansion of economic liberalization and globalization from 1980 to the present 
3 . 
1 Economic liberalization from the 1980s to 1997 
After the government stopped pursuing the HCI -LRB- Heavy and Chemical Industry -RRB- drive in 1979 , it was necessary for the Korean economy to move towards a market-driven and more open economy . 
The government began import liberalization in earnest in the early 1980s , after the government had suffered a temporary setback under the HCI policy . 
The government reduced intervention in the economy and emphasized greater reliance on the market . 
the government also decided on market opening measures to stimulate a competitive business environment . 
The rapid increase in export volume also encouraged the government to undertake import liberalization . 
In addition , stable energy prices , low international interest rates and a favorable exchange rate , especially with that of Japan , in the mid-1980s became catalysts for trade liberalization . 
Korea introduced the Advance Notice of Tariff Reduction in 1984 , to help trading companies prepare for Korea , and reduced tariff rates gradually over a period of 11 years . 
The Advance Notice of Tariff Reduction was successfully implemented , which made clear the government 's intention to open the domestic market . 
The event that had the most significant impact on Korea 's trade and economic policy was the Uruguay Round -LRB- UR -RRB- negotiations -LRB- 1986-1994 -RRB- . 
Due to the UR agreement , Korea reduced Korea 's tariff rates by 54 percent , and increased the share of tariff-free goods to 26 percent of total items , a big jump from 4 percent in the pre-UR period . 
As a result , the average tariff rate in 1989 was 12.7 percent , and fell to 7.9 percent in 1995 , almost the same level as the recent simple average tariff rate . 
Besides tariff reductions , the Korean government enacted the External Trade Act in 1987 , which enhanced trade liberalization and considerably reduced direct support for exports . 
Moreover , the government encouraged foreign investment , which had been highly restricted , preparing plans to attract foreign direct investment -LRB- FDI -RRB- in 1980 and opening the capital market in 1988 -LRB- with the lifting of some restrictions -RRB- . 
During this period , major trading partners strongly urged Korea to open Korea 's market as Korea 's trade surplus was increasing due to favorable economic conditions , such as stable energy prices , low international interest rates and low value of won in the mid-1980s . 
Trade conflicts with the U.S. became a major concern for Korea as Korea 's bilateral trade surplus with the U.S. increased rapidly -LRB- from 1.9 billion dollars in 1983 to 9.5 billion dollars in 1987 -RRB- . 
After the Plaza Accord , the Japanese yen sharply rose in value , which was beneficial to Korean exports and helped increase Korea 's trade surplus with the U.S. . 
The U.S. pressed Korea on market opening , based upon Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974 , and bilateral tensions reached a peak when the U.S. enacted the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988 . 
Between 1979 and 1988 , the U.S. conducted eight Section 301 investigations involving Korea in various areas , including insurance , shoes , steel rope , intellectual property rights , cigarettes , beef and wine ; but all disputes were resolved by consultations and no retaliatory measures were taken . 
However , Section 301 's retaliation threats were influential in Korea 's market opening . 
From the 1990s , Korea started opening markets in services and FDI . 
Competitiveness based on low wages was no longer a valid option since the 1990s . 
Wages have risen rapidly since the mid-1980s due to the democratization of Korean society and the end of labor surpluses , while Japanese firms increased outsourcing to Southeast Asian countries in order to take advantage of lower wages there . 
These circumstances forced Korea to develop technology-intensive industries . 
In addition , Korea was pressed to open Korea markets due to worldwide economic integration resulting from the UR , the World Trade Organization -LRB- WTO -RRB- and globalization trends . 
In 1993 , the Korean government announced the New Economy Five-Year Plan , which included -LRB- 1 -RRB- the internationalization and liberalization of the economy , -LRB- 2 -RRB- active participation in the new international trade order such as the UR , -LRB- 3 -RRB- the qualitative improvement of export products , and -LRB- 4 -RRB- the facilitation of technology transfer through FDI . 
The government simultaneously announced an economic policy that would be driven by the private sector and the Korean government promoted industrial restructuring through market opening , deregulation and competition . 
During the early 1990s , Korea carried out the following market liberalization policies : the opening of distribution markets , a plan to liberalize financial markets -LRB- 1992 -RRB- , improvement of overseas direct investment -LRB- ODI -RRB- regulations -LRB- 1992 -RRB- , the real-name financial transaction system -LRB- 1993 -RRB- , and the Won Currency Internationalization Plan -LRB- 1993 -RRB- . 
The FDI liberalization policy included abolition of several FDI-related obligations and increased the number of business categories to be liberalized -LRB- 1994 -RRB- . 
3 . 
2 Globalization of the Korean economy from 1998 to the present 
The Asian financial crisis of 1997 caused a great economic turmoil in Korea . 
Some of the factors cited for the crisis included Korea 's failure to take appropriate measures to counter reckless management of banks and moral hazard problems resulting from close ties between politicians and businesses , and a belief that large business groups were `` too big to fail . '' 
Korea had failed to establish a fair and transparent economic system in the process of pursuing dramatic economic growth -LRB- Chang Young Chung and Tae Kyu Park , 1995 -RRB- . 
High economic growth depended on an excess amount of foreign loans , which reached 180 billion dollars , most of which were short-term debts . 
In 1997 , Korea 's manufacturing sector had a debt-to-equity ratio of 400 percent , which was twice that of the U.S. or Japan , and five times higher than that in Taiwan -LRB- Kyu Sung Lee , 2006 -RRB- . 
The IMF bailout agreement accelerated the liberalization of the Korean economy . 
Korea agreed to eliminate trade-related subsidies , restrictive import licensing , and the import diversification program , in addition to streamlining and improving the transparency of import certification procedures . 
Moreover , Korea agreed not to postpone liberalization plans for reasons of Korea international balance of payments . 
From the late 1990s , Korea began pursuing a FTA -LRB- Free Trade Agreement -RRB- policy , turning away from a trade policy that focused only on the WTO 's multilateral trade liberalization . 
In an environment where FTAs were rapidly spreading all over the world , it was vital that Korea improve Korea 's economic efficiency . 
In addition , Korea needed to pursue an FTA policy in response to the regionalization trend in other regions , such as the EU and NAFTA -LRB- North American Free Trade Agreement -RRB- , which posed the threat of trade discrimination in Europe and the U.S. . 
The FTA policy also was seen as necessary to secure export markets and promote the efficiency of Korea 's economic system . 
With the launch of the FTA policy , Korea has concluded FTAs with Chile , Singapore , EFTA -LRB- European Free Trade Association -RRB- , ASEAN , the U.S. , India and the EU . 
The Korea-U.S. FTA signed in April 2007 was notable since it is the largest one in terms of trade volume among the FTAs concluded between countries around the Pacific Rim . 
Korea now ranks very high in terms of trade openness , although Korea FDI openness still ranks very low . 
The openness of the Korean economy measured as the sum of exports and imports as a percentage of GDP increased from 79 percent -LRB- exports 45 percent and imports 34 percent -RRB- in 1998 to 92 percent -LRB- exports 45 percent and imports 47 percent -RRB- in 2008 . 
However , FDI as a percentage of GDP was only 3 percent in 1990 , and remained low relative to other countries -LRB- Table 4-4 -RRB- . 
As of 2007 , Korea ranked 52nd in terms of FDI stock as a percentage of GDP among 55 countries , lower than most developed countries and major developing countries . 
Even after receiving more policy attention , the amount of FDI is still very small . 
The future agenda of trade policy should therefore be closely related to how Korea can make Korea domestic market investment-friendly . 
This will require an improvement of domestic institutions and the elimination of border barriers . 
The liberalization process met with domestic opposition by groups that were adversely affected by the measures . 
Institutional assistance and an expansion of the social safety net became important in minimizing the opposition to the liberalization policy . 
The trade adjustment assistance system was introduced immediately after the conclusion of the Korea-U.S. FTA . 
The global economy recently suffered one of the worst recessions since the Great Depression of the 1930s triggered by the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers in September 2008 . 
Korea , the G20 chair country for 2010 , has demonstrated Korea commitment to combat protectionism . 
Korea played a significant role in eliciting the political initiative of global leaders to prevent protectionism during the first and the second summits of the G20 . 
Over the past several decades , Korea has taken actions to lower tariffs and to remove non-tariff barriers . 
While Korea has observed international trade rules and made much progress in market liberalization , more work needs to be done , in particular , in the liberalization of the agricultural and service industries . 
Korea should also improve the investment environment . 
By attracting more foreign investment , Korea can promote structural reforms that will help the country in Korea transformation from a manufacturing-based economy to a knowledge - based one . 
In addition , Korea needs to improve the trade adjustment assistance system and make the social welfare infrastructure more relevant to an open market economy . 
Korea was one of the greatest beneficiaries of the open and rule-based multilateral trading system . 
Korea , now one of the world 's leading trading nations , should play a leading role in the conclusion of the Doha Development Agenda -LRB- DDA -RRB- negotiations in order to maintain the momentum for continued global liberalization . 
Moreover , Korea should contribute to promoting APEC -LRB- Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation -RRB- as an effective regional organization . 
The exchange rate was an important part of Korea 's export promotion policy . 
Before the 1980s , Korea had a fixed exchange rate system with Korea 's currency pegged to the U.S. dollar . 
This system , however , created a huge impact on the economy every time the rate was adjusted . 
Thus the government adopted a multiple currency basket peg system . 
As Korea started building a current account surplus , however , major trading partners , especially the U.S. , became vocal in opposition to the system , designating Korea as an exchange rate manipulator . 
In March 1990 , the exchange rate system was switched to a market average rate system with a narrow band of intraday fluctuation . 
With the trading band , the system was not able to reflect fully foreign currency supply and demand conditions and caused the won to remain overvalued against the dollar despite current account deficits . 
This led to a rise in foreign debt and a fall in foreign exchange reserves . 
The 1997 financial crisis caused a sharp depreciation of won . 
In an attempt to defend the currency , the government widened the government won trading band and finally abolished the band to allow the won to float freely . 
Since 1997 , the elasticity of exports with respect to the exchange rate has declined , as the pass-through effects of the exchange rate were reduced , meaning exporting firms tend to adjust won export prices rather than dollar prices in response to exchange rate fluctuations . 
As seen in the Figure 4-5 , there is another notable feature in Korea 's exports related to the exchange rate . 
Since 1997 , while real effective exchange rates have continued to appreciate , Korea 's exports by value or quantity have maintained high growth of about 20 percent . 
3 . 
3 GATT/WTO and FTA policies 3 . 
3.1 GATT/WTO policy 
The GATT , signed in 1947 , aimed to expand free trade by lowering trade barriers and abolishing differential treatment based on the principle of multilateralism . 
Through eight negotiating rounds , the GATT was committed to expanding fair and free trade . 
Korea became the 71st member state to the agreement in 1967 , when the 6th Kennedy Round took place . 
Korea conceded tariffs on 60 items at the Kennedy Round and increased the number to 657 items at the 7th Tokyo Round , which represented 10 percent of all tariff goods . 
The 8th Uruguay Round was critical in that The 8th Uruguay Round contained a wide range of agendas including service trade , intellectual property rights , agricultural and textile goods , and a number of other issues to clarify anti-dumping and safeguard measures . 
As a result of the UR , the WTO was established and the trade-related dispute settlement process was tightened by the organization . 
Unlike previous rounds , Korea played an active role during the UR process , increasing Korea tariff binding from 24 percent to 90 percent and reducing Korea tariffs by 54 percent . 
In services trade , the country conceded 78 items out of 155 . 
The stricter rules governing the dispute settlement process were beneficial to Korea as Korea faced problems due to resurging global protectionism . 
At the same time , the country was forced to abolish export subsidies according to the UR agreement . 
The DDA , the first multilateral negotiations under the WTO , was held in Doha , Qatar starting in 2001 in accordance with the promises given under the UR . 
The DDA covers nine main issues , including agricultural products , non-agricultural market access -LRB- NAMA -RRB- and trade in services , but is currently at a standstill . 
Korea has generally maintained a supportive stance toward the DDA . 
For NAMA and services trade , Korea is demanding wider market access . 
But Korea , a developing country in terms of agricultural imports , insists that the agricultural market must be opened gradually . 
3 . 
3.2 Free Trade Agreement policy 
With regional trade agreements -LRB- RTAs -RRB- expanding in the 1990s and 2000s , Korea also joined the trend . 
It was inevitable for the country , highly dependent on trade , to push for FTAs because no FTA puts any country in an unfavorable situation compared to other competing countries . 
Releasing the FTA Road Map in 2003 , Korea has pursued simultaneous FTAs with major economies to conclude high-quality and comprehensive 
FTAs . 
As of January 2010 , the country has signed seven FTAs , with five having gone into effect , and more than 10 FTA negotiations are underway . 
In particular , the economic impact -LRB- Lee and Lee , 2005 -RRB- of the Korea-US FTA -LRB- concluded in 2007 -RRB- and Korea-EU FTA -LRB- signed in 2010 -RRB- on the Korean economy is expected to be comprehensive and substantial because Korea 's commitments agreed in these FTAs are more far-reaching than any other FTAs Korea concluded before . 
As a result of such FTAs , Korea is expected to strengthen and advance Korea 's economic system and to see quantitative and qualitative improvement in growth potential through increased access to foreign markets . 
3 . 
4 The impact of trade on growth and employment 
Since the 1960s , Korea has implemented various forms of trade policies . 
Besides static effects , the policies contributed to growth dynamically in various ways . 
For instance , Wontack Hong -LRB- 1979 -RRB- reported that the percentage of jobs created by exports of industrial products increased from 6 percent in 1963 to 30 percent in 1975 . 
A recent study by Chong - Hyun Nam -LRB- 2008 -RRB- shows that net job creation by trade rose from 1.9 percent of total employment in 1975 to 6.7 percent in 1985 . 
Hongshik Lee -LRB- 2008 -RRB- suggested that the reduction in tariffs helped create jobs during the period 1980-2004 . 
Exports and market opening contributed much to strengthening the effectiveness and competitiveness of the Korean economy , and improving total factor productivity . 
Lawrence and Weinstein -LRB- 1999 -RRB- suggested that market opening was instrumental in increasing productivity in the cases of Korea and Japan . 
4 . 
Liberalization of foreign direct investment 4 . 
1 Inward foreign direct investment 4 . 
1.1 Evolution of policy 
Foreign direct investment in Korea was allowed in 1962 . 
However , the Korean government depended on foreign loans rather than FDI in Korea development strategies , with FDI being restricted until the early 1980s . 
The Korean government worried that foreign firms might dominate domestic industry , while funding through foreign loans was easier to control than capital inflows . 
During the early 1980s , when foreign debt became a serious problem among developing countries , the Korean government changed the Korean government policy by reducing the Korean government dependency on foreign loans and encouraging FDI , with systems to achieve this goal being put in place . 
In July 1984 , the Korean government changed the Korean government FDI policy from a positive list system to negative list one in order to expand the number of business categories that would be liberalized for FDI . 
the Korean government lifted the horizontal restriction in foreign equity ceiling of 50 percent . 
In 1992 , the Korean government introduced a notification system in principle . 
In 1996 , with Korea joining the OECD , the government took further liberalization steps on FDI . 
the Korean government started to open up the service sector , including financial , telecommunications and distribution services . 
In February 1997 , the government eased rules on mergers and acquisitions -LRB- M&A s -RRB- of domestic companies by foreign firms , allowing friendly M&A s , where the board of directors of targeted firms approved the deal . 
In 1998 , with the Korean economy trying to recover from the Asian financial crisis , the government promoted FDI by enacting the Foreign Investment Promotion Act . 
The government allowed hostile M&A s as well and liberalized the acquisition of real estate by foreigners . 
Investment incentives involving tax exemptions were extended to ten years and Investment incentives involving tax exemptions coverage was expanded to include high technology industries , industrial support services and businesses located in foreign investment zones . 
In April 1998 , the Korea Investment Service Center -LRB- KISC -RRB- was established under the KOTRA to provide one-stop services to potential foreign investors . 
The KISC was renamed Invest Korea in 2003 after expanding the organization and staff . 
In 1999 , an Ombudsman system was introduced in order to address any complaints by foreign investors . 
In 2003 , three free economic zones -LRB- FEZs -RRB- were designated in Incheon , Busan/Jinhae and Gwangyang Bay . 
In these FEZs , various statutes were deregulated to meet international standards and support was provided to improve business management and living conditions . 
In April 2008 , three more FEZs were designated in Hwanghae , Saemangeum-Kunsan and Daegu-Gyeungbuk . 
4 . 
1.2 Trends of inward foreign direct investment 
FDI into Korea was minimal until the mid-1990s , but FDI into Korea has increased dramatically after Korea joined the OECD and went through economic restructuring following the financial crisis . 
Many domestic companies were sold to foreign investors as part of the restructuring process , with FDI soaring to 15 billion dollars in both 1999 and 2000 on a notification basis . 
Following the restructuring period , FDI has subsided to about 10 billion dollars annually since 2001 . 
However , the FDI record is seen as disappointing by global standards . 
According to UNCTAD , Korea is classified in the list of countries where FDI performance falls below Korea potential . 
The FDI environment is evaluated as being less competitive than other countries . 
According to IMD , Korea ranks 53rd and 54th among 55 countries in terms of deregulation and labor market flexibility , respectively . 
The transparency of Korea policy also ranks poorly , at 35th . 
The U.S. is the largest foreign investor in Korea , followed by Japan and the Netherlands , as shown in Table 4-7 . 
4 . 
1.3 Economic effects of inward foreign direct investment 
FDI had a crucial role in building up foreign exchange reserves in the aftermath of the financial crisis . 
FDI increased foreign exchange reserves by 17 percent in 1998 and 42 percent in 1999 , making a significant contribution to the resolution of the crisis . 
FDI also increased production . 
From 1999 to 2006 , the percentage of output by foreign - invested companies out of total output rose from 8 percent to 13 percent in manufacturing -LRB- Table 4-8 -RRB- and from 4 percent to 10 percent in services -LRB- Table 4-9 -RRB- . 
4 . 
2 Outward direct investment 
Until 1981 , Korea 's outward investments amounted only to a total of 57 million dollars because the government restricted capital outflows . 
From 1986 , however , the government began to change Korea 's policy , switching to the liberalization of capital outflows . 
Following further liberalization measures in this area since 1994 , overseas direct investment has grown rapidly . 
The upward trend was briefly halted in 1998 due to the Asian financial crisis . 
The number of foreign subsidiaries established by Korean firms increased as the economy began to recover in 2000 . 
The size of investments has increased dramatically since 2005 , reaching 22 billion dollars in 2008 . 
Korean multinational enterprises have been the main drivers of overseas investments , including cross-border M&A s. Figure 4-6 shows the trend of Korean outward investment from 1981 to 2008 . 
Most of the overseas investments by Korean multinationals have been in Asia , with nearly half going to China -LRB- 47 percent -RRB- . 
The investment share for China , however , is declining due to rising investments in Hong Kong and Vietnam since 2005 . 
Table 4-10 shows that Asia has attracted 56 billion dollars , which represents 48 percent of total investments from Korea between 1968 and 2008 , compared with 23 percent for North America and 15 percent for Europe . 
Since 2005 , however , investments in Asia have been declining at the expense of growing investments in North America and Latin America . 
The share of outward investment by Korean multinationals in agriculture , forestry and fishing industries has fallen continuously and stood at a mere 0.4 percent of total overseas investments in 2008 , whereas investment in the mining sector increased from 0.2 percent in 1981 to 16 percent in 2008 , reflecting the increased interest in securing foreign sources of raw materials . 
Overseas investments were biggest in the manufacturing sector until 2006 , followed by services . 
But this situation has been reversed since 2007 when the overseas investment share for services exceeded 50 percent . 
Table 4-11 shows the distribution of overseas investments of Korean multinationals by sector . 
The economic impact of overseas investments by Korea has been analyzed in a number of studies . 
Hongshik Lee -LRB- 2010 -RRB- found that the activities of foreign affiliates can boost exports . 
Sung-Hoon Lim and Hwy-Chang Moon -LRB- 2001 -RRB- found that when Korean multinationals in industries suffering low productivity invest in developing countries , the outward investment can positively affect intra-firm trade . 
As for the relationship between capital outflow and domestic investment , Hyunjeong Kim -LRB- 2008 -RRB- showed that there is no evidence of a `` crowding-out effect '' on domestic capital formation by overseas investments . 
Investments abroad can actually be complementary to domestic investment and this effect becomes more significant for investments in high-tech industries in developing countries . 
As for employment , Debaere et al. -LRB- 2010 -RRB- found that the impact of overseas investment can differ depending on destination ; increasing employment at headquarters operations in Korea can decrease investment in developing countries , while there was no significant effect on investment in developed countries . 
Overall , there seems to be no evidence of a `` hollowing-out effect '' by overseas investment on the domestic economy and the effect can vary depending on model specifications . 
5 . 
Economic cooperation 5 . 
1 Bilateral economic relations 
Korea 's economic reconstruction in the 1950s benefitted much from the U.S. aid , which accounted for up to 10 percent of GDP . 
However , when Korea achieved a trade surplus with the U.S. in the 1980s , intense trade conflicts ensued between the two countries . 
Although the share of trade with the U.S. has fallen in recent years due to the rise of the Chinese economy and Korea 's diversification strategy towards overseas markets , the U.S. remains one of Korea 's three biggest trading partners . 
Korea and the U.S. also have entered into a new stage of economic cooperation with the conclusion of an FTA , which represents a more advanced stage of economic cooperation . 
It is significant that both governments agree on such issues as promoting environment-friendly growth and technology and supporting economic development aid for the world 's poorest countries . 
In contrast with the U.S. , cooperation between Korea and Japan did not begin until 1965 when diplomatic ties between the two countries were normalized . 
The development grant from Japan made a huge contribution to financing infrastructure investment projects and fostering industrial development in Korea . 
This set the stage for increased trade and investment between Korea and Japan . 
As Korea 's exports became more capital-intensive and technology-intensive , Korean firms ' competition with Japanese counterparts intensified in world markets . 
At the same time , The development grant from Japan also boosted Korea-Japan trade in industrial goods , such as machinery and components . 
The relative importance of Japan in Korea 's trade has declined , as trade and investment expanded with a growing number of nations . 
Nonetheless , Japan still remains one of Korea 's major partners in trade and investment , with great potential for further cooperation . 
Bilateral economic cooperation with China has accelerated since the establishment of diplomatic relations in 1992 . 
China is of paramount importance in terms of trade and investment flows . 
Korea-China economic relations have mirrored the dynamic development of China . 
But the model of using Chinese low-wage labor as part of a wider East Asian production network has reached a critical junction . 
Companies engaged in simple manufacturing processing are being forced to relocate or shut down . 
Large investments tend to be made in `` high value-added '' '' industries in China , from manufacturing to services in finance , logistics and real estate . 
This structural change in China requires the need for prompt and consistent actions in response . 
The European Union -LRB- EU -RRB- has become the largest investor in Korea , and also The European Union -LRB- EU -RRB- has become the second largest market for Korea 's exports , after China . 
The importance of the EU as a market and a source of FDI can hardly be overstated for Korea , especially now when Korea needs to develop the service sector and upgrade Korea 's industrial structure . 
With the Korea-EU FTA signed in 2010 , it is vital to strengthen cooperation in science and technology to bolster Korea 's industrial bases and participate in the joint development of new technologies for the environment and energy sectors . 
5 . 
2 Regional cooperation 
The history of Korea 's regional economic cooperation is short in contrast to that of Korea 's bilateral cooperation . 
A regional cooperation policy came into being with the market opening measures of the early 1980s and was stimulated by the prolonged UR negotiations and rapid growth of regionalism in the Asia Pacific region . 
In the late 1980s , liberalization in trade , investment and the foreign exchange market started to make a positive impact in terms of promoting the globalization of Korean economy and Korea 's structural improvement . 
Korea 's created the conditions and an environment for Korea to play a leading role in the arena of international cooperation . 
The planned formation of the EU and launch of the UR in the late 1980s encouraged Korea 's participation in regional cooperation . 
In 1989 , Korea took a leading role in establishing APEC to help develop economic cooperation in the Asian and Pacific region , where most of Korea 's exports and investment are concentrated . 
Since the Asian financial crisis in 1997 , Korea has taken active part in broader regional cooperation efforts through ASEAN -LRB- Association of Southeast Asian Nations -RRB- , ASEAN +3 -LRB- China , Japan , Korea -RRB- , and ASEM -LRB- Asia-Europe Meeting -RRB- in order to attain sustainable growth in association with regional economic development . 
APEC took precedence for Korea as the main organizational body to promote regional economic cooperation until the early 2000s . 
Korea has been a leader in advancing APEC 's Trade and Investment Liberalization and Facilitation -LRB- TILF -RRB- and Economic and Technical Cooperation -LRB- Ecotech -RRB- agendas , with the following policy objectives : -LRB- 1 -RRB- contributing to the facilitation of global free trade under the WTO system ; -LRB- 2 -RRB- deepening regional integration to secure trade and investment markets and expand business opportunities ; -LRB- 3 -RRB- strengthening strategic relationships with member economies ; and -LRB- 4 -RRB- sharing knowledge , experience and resources with developing economies . 
As regards East Asian cooperation , the Korean government has stepped up efforts to create the ASEAN +3 cooperative frameworks . 
There are a number of impediments to genuine economic integration . 
In particular , the historical conflict between China and Japan hinders economic integration . 
Clarifying the division of roles with the EAS -LRB- East Asia Summit -RRB- and other Asian cooperation forums , and solidifying the role of ASEAN +3 are regarded as the key to all future activities . 
The future of the less structured ASEM , which must overcome differences in economic , social and historical background between Asia and Europe , rests on the efforts of Japan member economies . 
These efforts involve strengthening economic ties through liberalization and openness , collaboration on securing financial stability , the promotion of inter-regional trade and investment , the continuous investment in infrastructure , extensive cooperation in science and technology , an increase in political and security cooperation , joint action on environmental issues , and the stimulation of educational , cultural and social interaction . 
5 . 
3 Development cooperation 
In the early 1990s , Korea received requests to fulfill Korea 's international responsibility to global development due to Korea 's increasing economic importance and rising international status . 
Korea 's establishment of the Economic Development Cooperation Fund -LRB- EDCF -RRB- in 1987 marked a new phase in economic cooperation . 
Since then , Korea has increased official development aid -LRB- ODA -RRB- to contribute to the development and well-being of developing economies . 
As a consequence , Korean ODA reached 700 million dollars in 2007 , up from 180 million dollars in 1998 , and Korea 's ODA/GNI ratio rose from 0.05 percent in 2006 to 0.08 percent in 2007 and 0.09 percent in 2008 . 
However , this figure is short of the UN 's recommendation of 0.7 percent and the average of the OECD Development Assistance Committee -LRB- DAC -RRB- members of 0.3 percent . 
Korea became the 24th member of the OECD DAC in November 2009 , an unprecedented case of leapfrogging from recipient to donor in the 13 years since Global Korea ' joined the OECD . 
Joining the DAC has great significance in terms of enhancing Korea 's international status and bolstering the vision of ` Global Korea ' prior to holding the G20 summit in Seoul in November 2010 . 
In this regard , Korea has set a goal of raising the ratio of ODA/GNI to 0.15 percent by 2012 and 0.25 percent by 2015 . 
This would require annual spending on ODA to be around 3 billion dollars , requiring fundamental changes in national policy priorities and consensus . 
Furthermore , another important task is to strengthen the principles and priorities of ODA to turn quantitative growth into qualitative development , and improve the integration of ODA policy objectives of the individual government agencies . 
Korea , as a member of the DAC , is wholeheartedly committed to improving the quality and quantitative expansion of aid , with a focus on the consistency of development cooperation . 
Having certain comparative advantages , it is essential for Korea to tailor the contents of Korea 's development experience to the needs of recipient economies and support the Korean model of development cooperation . 
It is suggested that ODA projects should be governed by the proposed enactment of an `` ODA Act , '' which would create guidelines and a performance-based assessment system to ensure objectivity and transparency in ODA programs . 
Although Korea 's ODA policy gives much weight to the involvement of citizen volunteers and has earned broad public support and participation , Korea 's ODA policy is still at an early stage of development . 
Based upon the extensive participation of the private sector , it is necessary to exchange views and best practices of ODA , allocate adequate budgets , and promote activities to fight poverty and support development cooperation . 
It is in need of a more intense and focused effort to seek solutions to such issues as health care , the environment and women 's rights , and nurturing efforts to improve the aid efficiency and the outcome of millennium development goals . 
6 . 
Agricultural import liberalization 6 . 
1 Overview 
Until the early 1960s when the first Economic Development Plan began , Korea was a typical agrarian country . 
As the manufacturing sector grew at an explosive rate and a large number of farm laborers migrated to urban areas , the importance of agriculture diminished . 
In the early 1960s , agriculture generated about 40 percent of Korea 's GDP and the labor force employed in the agricultural sector accounted for 60 percent of Korea 's total working population . 
In 2009 , the agricultural share of GDP was less than 3 percent and agricultural workers accounted for less than 7 percent of employment . 
In terms of Korea 's agricultural trade policy , imports of major agricultural products were restricted to protect domestic farmers until the mid-1990s . 
However , despite such a policy , agricultural imports steadily increased from the early 1980s due to the shortage of domestic food supplies . 
In particular , the increased demand for meats , fruits , vegetable oils and processed food were mainly satisfied by imports . 
The expansion of the domestic livestock industry also resulted in large feed grain imports . 
Full-scale import liberalization in agriculture began in the late 1980s when the Korean government began to shift the Korean government development strategies towards liberalization in investment as well as external trade . 
Globalization and serious trade frictions with major trading partners also forced Korea to undertake policies for the opening of agricultural markets . 
This section reviews the history of Korea 's agricultural import liberalization over the last six decades , focusing on opening measures after the mid-1980s . 
The following sections will discuss agricultural import liberalization , Korea 's graduation from GATT Article XVIII : B , the implementation of the Uruguay Round Agreement on Agriculture -LRB- URAA -RRB- , the rice negotiations in 2004 and the delay of rice tariffication , and the impact of the FTAs with major trading partners , including Chile , EFTA , ASEAN and the U.S. 
6 . 
2 Korea-US trade conflict and graduation from GATT article XVIII : B 
6 . 
2.1 Trade friction with the U.S. in the mid-1980s 
As the world economy recovered from the first oil shock in 1973 , Korea 's exports grew rapidly , recording Korea 's first trade surplus of 300 million dollars with the U.S. in 1982 . 
Korea 's trade surplus with the U.S. reached 9.6 billion dollars in 1987 . 
In contrast , the U.S. was burdened by financial and trade deficits . 
During the 1980s and 1990s , the U.S. trade deficits spawned worries about unfair foreign trade barriers , lost jobs , and America 's ability to compete in the global market . 
As a result , the Section 301 provisions of 1974 and the 1988 Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act were passed by the U.S. Congress . 
As part of part of its efforts to avoid a possible U.S. designation of Korea as a `` priority '' foreign country suspected of engaging in unfair trade practices efforts to avoid a possible U.S. designation of Korea as a `` priority '' foreign country suspected of engaging in unfair trade practices , the Korean government announced in 1988 a three-year market opening schedule -LRB- 1989-1991 -RRB- to liberalize imports of 243 agricultural , forestry and fishery products . 
6 . 
2.2 Graduation from GATT XVIII : B 
Korea , which for many years had balance-of-payment -LRB- BOP -RRB- deficits and sought to minimize imports to save foreign exchanges , relied on the GATT 's Article 18 that allowed countries to impose quantitative import restrictions if countries had BOP deficits . 
As a result , the Korean government used a system of import licensing for many agricultural commodities and almost never issued import licenses , effectively banning imports . 
Under the GATT , countries using Article 18 to justify trade barriers were subject to periodic reviews of countries using Article 18 to justify trade barriers BOP situation . 
In 1987 , a GATT committee reviewed Korea and urged that Korea relinquish Korea 's restrictions because Korea was running BOP surpluses by then . 
Based on this finding , the U.S. successfully challenged Korea 's quantitative import restrictions on beef in a GATT dispute in 1989 . 
A subsequent review of Korea 's BOP status in 1989 also confirmed that Korea didn ' t need the quantitative restrictions to conserve foreign currency , having recorded current account surpluses . 
In the face of these findings , Korea agreed in 1989 to eliminate Korea 's quantitative restrictions by 1997 and announced a series of measures to liberalize many tariff items . 
9 
The UR coincided with the phasing out of the BOP trade barriers . 
In 1995 , Korea 's commitment to the UR agreement subsumed the BOP concessions and , in some cases , amended some cases . 
6 . 
3 Implementation of the URAA 6 . 
3.1 Commitments by Korea 
The Uruguay Round Agreement on Agriculture -LRB- URAA -RRB- can be regarded as the most effective multilateral trade pact in history in that The Uruguay Round Agreement on Agriculture -LRB- URAA -RRB- converted quantitative restrictions to a system based on tariffs , which would then be reduced in phases . 
The Uruguay Round Agreement on Agriculture -LRB- URAA -RRB- also harmonized domestic subsidies with international rules on domestic subsidies use for the first time . 
Korea agreed to the elimination of non-tariff barriers and the market liberalization of all agricultural commodities with the exception of rice . 
Tariffs and newly established tariff - equivalents were to be reduced by 27 percent on average over 10 years . 
Under Korea market access commitments , Korea began to phase out non-tariff import restrictions on agricultural products in January 1995 . 
Tariff rate quotas were established for a number of former import-restricted agricultural products , including many horticultural products . 
The remaining phase of the BOP liberalization , somewhat modified by the URAA , was completed on schedule by January 1 , 2001 . 
As for beef , the import quota was maintained until 2000 and was completely liberalized in 2001 with a tariff rate of 41.2 percent . 
Before then , Korea 's beef import regime followed the rules negotiated under the auspices of the GATT in agreements reached with the United States and other trading partners in 1989 and 1993 before the URAA . 
As a result , Korea 's agricultural import liberalization rate increased sharply to 99 percent in 2008 from 80 percent in 1990 . 
6 . 
3.2 Overall changes in agriculture after the Uruguay Round 
The value of agricultural production was still rising in 1995 and 1996 , but the growth rate slowed after 1994 . 
The `` farm gate '' price index for rice and grains increased rapidly in 1995 and 1996 . 
During the same period , the `` farm gate '' price index for fruits began falling , while that for vegetables and livestock products rose marginally . 
Agricultural imports increased markedly in 1995 , but the growth rate slowed in 1996 . 
Agricultural exports showed a similar trend . 
Accordingly , the increase in net imports can be one reason for the slowing growth of agricultural prices in 1996 . 
Total acreage declined steadily , although the rate of decrease leveled off after 1995 . 
Rice acreage decreased only marginally in 1996 . 
The acreage of barley , fruits and vegetables increased . 
In conclusion , the rise in the value of agricultural production was caused by an increase in prices of those products rather than by an increase in the size of agricultural output . 
The price of agricultural products continued to increase due to strong consumer demand and rising incomes , even with the growth of agricultural imports . 
Therefore , the adverse effects of market opening through the implementation of URAA can be said to be minimal . 
6 . 
4 Rice negotiations in 2004 
Import barriers have long played a central role in Korea 's rice policy . 
As a result of the UR agricultural negotiations , Korea received special treatment for rice , permitting the suspension of the introduction of a tariff system for ten years from 1995 to 2004 . 
Instead , Korea was required to start in 1995 to import an amount of rice that was equivalent to 1 percent of average annual rice consumption between 1988 and 1990 , with the amount of imports to be raised to 4 percent by 2004 . 
10 Korea was allowed to impose a tariff of 5 percent on the rice imports , with the rice trade remaining strictly under government control during the 10-year grace period . 
According to the URAA , the replacement of the Minimum Market Access -LRB- MMA -RRB- was to be negotiated with Korea 's trading partners before December 31 , 2004 . 
Negotiations continued through much of 2004 and culminated in an agreement just before the deadline that set the rules for Korean rice imports for the period 2005-2014 . 
Under the agreement , the MMA import quota will almost double in size by 2014 , but there is no provision for imports above the quota . 
The tariff on rice imported under the quota will remain at 5 percent . 
The Korean government is committed to releasing a portion of the imported rice into local markets with a permitted mark-up in price . 
The minimum import quota for the period 2005-2014 was divided into two stages . 
In the first stage , an import quota of 205,228 tons was set in 2004 , with supplies coming from four countries , including China with 116,159 tons ; the United States 50,076 tons ; Thailand 29,963 tons ; and Australia 9,030 tons . 
The second stage involved a gradual increase in the quota each year between 2005 and 2014 , with countries enjoying most-favored-nation -LRB- MFN -RRB- status with Korea being allowed to sell rice within the quota . 
The initial MFN quota was set at 20,347 tons and the quota was increased by 20,347 tons each year thereafter . 
The total rice import will reach 408,700 tons by 2014 , with the MFN quota being 203,472 tons . 
Korea reserves the right to terminate the quota and replace the quota with a tariff-rate quota -LRB- TRQ -RRB- system at the beginning of any year during the ten-year period . 
If a TRQ system is adopted , the quota size remains at the level stipulated for that year when the switch to the TRQ system is made , with no further increase thereafter . 
The TRQ allows for imports exceeding the quota and the tariff for these excess imports will be calculated according to the URAA guidelines . 
If global trade negotiations are ever concluded under the DDA , the tariff for the excess imports and the size of the TRQ would be changed to reflect the rules of the DDA agreement . 
In the event of a switch to the TRQ system , the country-specific quotas would end and the entire quota amount would be open to imports on an MFN basis . 
The 2004 rice agreement , however , exacerbated the problem that Korea has faced in recent years ; rice consumption has been declining faster than production , creating a huge amount of surplus rice . 
In response , Korea is considering introducing rice tariffs and reforming domestic rice policies to provide aid to rice farms that are in accordance with WTO rules , while encouraging farmers to reduce the area allocated to planting rice . 
6 . 
5 Import liberalization through FTAs 
Since the establishment of the FTA Roadmap in 2003 , Korea has actively engaged in FTA negotiations with over 50 countries . 
Korea 's first FTA partner was Chile . 
The FTA negotiation with Chile started in 1999 and an agreement was reached in 2002 . 
The National Assembly ratified the FTA with Chile in March 2004 . 
The first FTA negotiations boosted confidence in pursuing FTA negotiations with other countries . 
FTAs with Singapore -LRB- 2006 -RRB- , EFTA -LRB- 2006 -RRB- , ASEAN -LRB- 2007 -RRB- and India -LRB- 2009 -RRB- have gone into force since then . 
The FTA negotiation with the United States was concluded in April 2007 and currently awaits ratification by the legislatures in both countries . 
FTAs were concluded with the EU and Peru in September 2010 . 
FTA negotiations are currently being conducted with Canada , Mexico , the Gulf Cooperation Council -LRB- GCC -RRB- , Australia , New Zealand , Colombia and Turkey . 
6 . 
5.1 The results of the FTA with Chile 
Korea 's concession on agricultural products identifies ten types of schedules for the elimination of tariffs : immediate elimination ; tariff elimination over periods of 5 years , 7 years , 9 years , 10 years and 16 years ; seasonal tariffs ; TRQ plus negotiations reflecting the DDA negotiations ; and exemptions . 
The seasonal tariff was eliminated on Chilean grapes over a 10-year period from November through April , when no grapes are harvested in Korea . 
The items subject to TRQ+DDA includes beef , chicken , whey and plums . 
Items to be negotiated after the conclusion of the DDA negotiations include garlic , onions , red peppers and certain dairy products that are subject to high tariffs . 
In 2009 , imports of kiwi were seven times higher than in 2003 and imports of wine were five times higher than in 2003 . 
Total imports of agricultural products from Chile in 2006 increased about three times compared to 2003 . 
Exports of Korean industrial products to Chile have increased significantly due to the reduction of tariffs after the FTA came into effect . 
Exports of automobiles to Chile have increased from 22,510 cars in 2003 to 48,925 in 2006 and Korea 's share of Chile 's automobile imports has increased from 18.8 percent to 25.7 percent . 
Also , exports of mobile phones and TV sets have increased by an annual average of 108 percent and 24 percent , respectively . 
Total exports from Korea to Chile have increased around three-fold . 
6 . 
5.2 The results of the FTA with the United States 
Negotiations with the United States were concluded in April 2007 and the resulting FTA is currently in the process of ratification by the two countries ' legislatures . 
The agricultural sector was the main issue in the negotiations . 
Korea agreed to eliminate tariffs on 587 items out of 1,548 agricultural products once the agreement goes into force and to eliminate tariffs for all agricultural products within 20 years , except for a few items such as rice and rice products . 
Although rice was excluded from the tariff concessions , Korea will grant zero duty immediately on imports of U.S. corn feed and milling wheat once the FTA goes into effect . 
The tariffs on imports of beef muscle cuts will decline from the current 40 percent to zero in 15 equal annual reductions . 
The agreement includes a quantity safeguard of 270,000 metric tons for beef muscle cuts , growing at a compound 2 percent annual rate , to a final safeguard level of 354,000 tons in 15 years . 
In year 16 and beyond , tariffs will be eliminated and the safeguard will no longer apply . 
The tariffs on oranges imported during the out-of-season period -LRB- March 1-August 31 -RRB- will be reduced from the current 50 percent to 30 percent immediately and then will be eliminated in six equal annual reductions . 
In addition , during the in-season period -LRB- September 1-end of February -RRB- , a duty-free quota shall be established with an initial quantity of 2,500 tons , with 3 percent annual compound growth in perpetuity . 
The tariff imposed on imports exceeding the quota tariff will remain at the current MFN rate of 50 percent . 
6 . 
6 Future tasks 
Korea , a major food importer , has tried for more than three decades to strengthen Korea , a major food importer , own agricultural production and avoid imports . 
The trade policies of Korea imposed strong barriers to imports and agricultural policies strongly supported domestic farm prices and the production of certain commodities within closed borders . 
Bilateral and multilateral negotiations have gradually reduced South Korea 's trade barriers . 
In particular , in the negotiations under the auspices of the GATT ending in 1989 , Korea agreed not to invoke Article XVIII : B of the GATT for all tariff-line restrictions after July 1 , 1997 . 
After the BOP agreement in 1989 , Korea announced a three-year import liberalization plan . 
The end of import licensing for all remaining restricted tariff lines was spelled out in the 1995 agreement of the multilateral trade negotiations of the URAA . 
Korea 's import barriers to agricultural products will be reduced significantly under the various FTAs , particularly the FTA with the U.S. 
The implementation of the URAA and trade liberalization under the various FTAs has led to important changes in Korean agriculture . 
Greater exposure to the global economy means that finding ways to increase competitiveness , together with appropriate adjustment policies , have become urgent goals for Korea . 
However , achieving increased agricultural competitiveness will be a major challenge given the prevalence of small farms and the high proportion of older farmers . 
According to the OECD , the aggregate PSE -LRB- producer support estimate -RRB- of Korea for major farm commodities is over 50 percent . 
The consumer support estimate -LRB- CSE -RRB- is always negative , representing an implicit tax on consumers stemming from government programs that support producers . 
As a percentage , The consumer support estimate -LRB- CSE -RRB- measures the size of this implicit tax relative to consumer spending on food . 
The aggregate CSE for Korea is highly negative , suggesting that the implicit tax is equivalent to more than 50 percent of consumer spending on major food items . 
Therefore , efforts to open agricultural markets should continue . 
For example , Korea may pursue additional bilateral trade agreements such as the one recently concluded with the EU , while working toward a successful conclusion of the Doha Round of multilateral trade negotiations . 
State trading enterprises could be reformed to allow for increased competition , and tariff systems should be modified to reduce tariffs and increase trade in general . 
7 . 
Liberalization in the service sector 7 . 
1 Overview 
Service sector liberalization is a nebulous concept in Korea since there is no agreed definition on what Service sector liberalization should comprise . 
Disagreements over the concept arise from the fact that -LRB- 1 -RRB- the service industry is not included in the same categories of traditional economic activities as agriculture , mining and the manufacturing industry ; and -LRB- 2 -RRB- trade barriers in the service sector are not transnational in nature , such as tariffs , but instead are seen as arising from domestic laws , regulations and administrative guidelines . 
The service industry as defined by the Korean Standard Industrial Classification includes 13 sectors . 
The service sector ` share of GDP has risen and accounted for 62.1 percent in 2008 . 
However , Korea has suffered a deficit in the service trade balance since the 1980s . 
Service sector liberalization began receiving public attention in Korea when the U.S. wanted to open the country 's distribution and telecommunications sectors in the mid - 1980s . 
However , major steps in service sector liberalization had already been taken under the voluntary liberalization policy , which was introduced by the government in the early 1980s . 
This represented a change from the international economic policy of Korea during the 1970s , which was to restrict imports and promote exports . 
In the 1980s , the government instead decided to encourage greater economic efficiency and reduce the state ' role in protecting industry and intervening in the economy . 
The government also promoted import liberalization and market opening measures . 
The voluntary service sector liberalization of the early 1980s included easing restrictions on overseas travel , relaxing rules on studying abroad , and eliminating investment restrictions in the wholesale and retail industries . 
The liberalization in the mid-1980s focused on the cultural sector , including films , telecommunications and distribution services that were of interest to the U.S. 
The 1990s was a period of full-scale liberalization in the service sector as the government eliminated restrictions on sectors that had been protected for industrial and political purposes . 
The Five-Year Plan for Foreign Investment Liberalization was introduced in 1993 and was amended three times to open more areas to foreign direct investment . 
In 1996 , Korea became a member of the OECD and Korea implemented many liberalization policies in the service sector , including the Act on Foreign Investment and the Introduction of Foreign Capital . 
The Korean economy experienced rapid growth in the 1990s and was recognized as an advanced developing country . 
Korea was then put on a watch list by major developed countries in terms of monitoring fair competition in the global market . 
Korea proclaimed Korea support for liberalization and market opening as a member of the WTO and the OECD . 
This process was accelerated by the 1997 financial crisis and the recommendations of the IMF bailout program . 
The ceiling on foreign ownership was eliminated in major industries in 1998 . 
The restrictions on Japanese cultural products were also eliminated after 1998 . 
Liberalization in the service sector often means the elimination of domestic regulations . 
In the following , we will investigate developments in service liberalization in Korea over a period of time . 
7 . 
2 Liberalization in Mode 2 11 areas 7 . 
2.1 Tourism services 
Globalization and liberalization gained momentum during the 1980s . 
The Korean government actively sought ways to encourage Koreans to go abroad . 
In January 1983 , overseas tours were allowed for the first time , albeit with some restrictions . 
Full liberalization of overseas tours occurred in 1989 , after Korea had maintained a positive balance of payments for several years and living standards had risen . 
Following liberalization , the number of tourists from Korea increased to 448,727 in 1990 , a rise of 235 percent . 
The numbers continued to increase despite a temporary fall in 1998 due to the financial crisis . 
The share of tourists among those traveling abroad from Korea was more than 50 percent . 
The balance of travel payment showed a surplus in 1988 , but then fell into deficits after 1991 . 
Liberalizing overseas travel enjoyed widespread public support . 
Therefore , the government took more steps to eliminate restrictions on overseas travel in 1995 . 
The limit on overseas travel expenses was increased from 5,000 dollars per month to 10,000 dollars per month and regulations on overseas remittances were lifted . 
In 2001 , foreign exchange transactions were liberalized . 
The purchase of foreign real estate was allowed in 1995 , with an initial ceiling of 300,000 dollars . 
In 2008 , the limit was increased to 1 million dollars and the transaction only required notification to , but not the permission of , the government . 
7 . 
2.2 Educational services 
The policy concerning students studying abroad was influenced by the goal of obtaining the best education for those who are talented . 
Before the liberalization in 1985 , personal spending for studying abroad was tightly controlled , with many restrictions . 
Only about 600 students per year were allowed to study abroad at Only about 600 students per year own expense in the 1970s , but the number increased to 7,000 by the mid-1980s . 
7 . 
3 Liberalization in Mode 3 areas 7 . 
3.1 Uruguay Round 
The concession table of the Korean government in the UR shows that 78 out of 155 service sectors were liberalized . 
These included 31 areas in business services , 15 in financial services , 9 in communication services , 8 in transportation , 5 in construction services , 4 in distribution services and 3 in tourism services . 
Korea maintained restrictions on the employment of foreign professionals in every service sector . 
Medical and dental services , film and videotape services , primary and secondary school services , and news broadcasting and sports leisure services were not subject to liberalization . 
The overall level of service sector liberalization in Korea after the UR was lower than that of advanced countries such as the U.S. and EU , but higher than other developing countries . 
After the launch of WTO , Korea has tried to abide by the concession schedule and open the service market more widely . 
As a result of this effort , foreign direct investment in the service sector has increased . 
The government has promoted increased service sector liberalization through multilateral and bilateral negotiations and voluntary liberalization since 2000 . 
7 . 
3.2 Accession to the OECD 
Korea joined the OECD in December 1996 . 
As a result of the negotiations for OECD membership , Korea was allowed to maintain regulations on 41 out of 91 sectors under the OECD Code of Liberalization of Capital Movement and 10 out of 57 sectors under the OECD Code of Liberalization of Current Invisible Operation . 
This reservation rate was very high compared to the OECD average . 
However , Korea introduced plans for further liberalization on capital movements . 
Regulations on foreign direct investment in Korean companies were reduced or eliminated and the limitations on overseas financing for Korean firms were also relaxed significantly . 
As a result , there was a sizable increase in the amount of FDI into Korea . 
7 . 
3.3 Changes due to the 1997 Asian financial crisis 
Korea recognized the need to attract more FDI as a means to recover from the 1997 Asian financial crisis . 
To this end , the Act on Foreign Investment was enacted , which included streamlining FDI procedures , eliminating some regulations , and improving preferential tax treatment and incentives . 
The number of business categories subject to foreign investment restrictions was reduced from 113 in 1995 to 25 in 2008 . 
Another major change in FDI policy concerned corporate mergers and acquisitions . 
Even though global FDI trends shifted from greenfield investments to M&A s during the 1990s , the Korean government did not allow much M&A activity involving foreign investors until the Korean government permitted friendly M&A s in 1997 . 
Restrictions on M&A s were eased further because of the conditions tied to the IMF loans that Korea received . 
In 1998 , hostile M&A s were also allowed in Korea . 
As a result , the total amount of M&A - related foreign investment was 44 billion dollars in 2008 , accounting for 31 percent of total FDI . 
7 . 
3.4 The DDA negotiations 
Korea made two rounds of submissions in the service sector to the WTO . 
The initial submission was made in 2003 . 
The acquisition of shares in broadcasting , communications and aviation companies was to be restricted . 
Foreign legal consultant services were allowed , but only in the form of representative offices . 
Auditing services would be limited to sole proprietorships , auditing task forces , and accounting corporations consisting of CPAs licensed under the Certified Public Accountant Act . 
Higher education and adult education were partially liberalized . 
Foreign financial institutions could not undertake financial services , except for financial leasing , that Foreign financial institutions do not conduct in Foreign financial institutions country of origin . 
A single shareholder may own up to 10 percent of the stocks in a bank -LRB- or up to 4 percent in the case of a non-financial service entity -RRB- and 15 percent of stocks in a regional bank without special authorization from the authorities . 
A single shareholder can own up to 100 percent of a national or regional bank with special authorization by the relevant authorities . 
Foreign exchange positions were to be regulated and oversold positions on the spot foreign exchange market was set at 5 million dollars , or 3 percent of capital , whichever was greater . 
The overall level of the offer in 2003 was lower than the current level of liberalization . 
7 . 
3.5 The Korea-U.S. FTA 
The Korea-US FTA has yet to be ratified by both governments , but The Korea-US FTA already has had a significant influence on the liberalization of the service sector . 
A `` negative system '' governing services was adopted , which helped to increase transparency . 
A `` ratchet '' mechanism was also included to prevent a backward slide in the liberalization of the service sector . 
Korea offered some preferential treatment to the U.S. in the areas of telecommunications , broadcasting , and legal and auditing services . 
7 . 
4 Achievements 
Following the Mode 3 liberalization in the service sector after 1990 , FDI in service industries showed remarkable growth . 
During the 2000s , the amount of FDI in the service sector surpassed that in manufacturing sector and the gap between the two has grown wider since then . 
In 2008 , the service sector accounted for 70 percent of FDI and manufacturing 30 percent -LRB- Table 4-25 -RRB- . 
FDI was strong in the financial , insurance , distribution and business services . 
Since the service sector is very important to the economic growth and improved living standards , the Korean government is committed to improving productivity in the service sector and will continue moves toward liberalization of service industries . 
8 . 
Financial opening 
Until the 1980s , it was the norm for countries to maintain strict controls over the movement of capital across borders . 
In the 1990s , capital market integration among countries resulted in the rapid growth of the international financial sector . 
Korea wanted to develop Korea 's financial industry and took steps towards the opening of Korea 's financial market . 
But it was the 1997 financial crisis that accelerated moves toward throwing open the doors of Korea 's capital markets . 
Financial liberalization focused on two aspects . 
One was foreign exchange liberalization and the other was the opening of financial markets to foreign investors and participants . 
8 . 
1 Foreign exchange liberalization 
Following Korea 's liberation from Japanese colonial rule in 1945 , the country adopted foreign exchange controls . 
Korea suffered from a shortage of foreign currency like most developing countries then . 
The exchange rate was fixed by agreement between Korean and U.S. governments . 
All transactions using foreign currency were strictly controlled by the government and limited only to authorized institutions . 
Korea 's foreign exchange policy has varied with changing circumstances . 
The Korean government fixed Korea 's exchange rate to the U.S. dollar , subject to periodical readjustments , until 1980 . 
After 16 years of a U.S. dollar-based currency peg , a multiple currency basket peg system was introduced in March 1980 . 
In the late 1980s , Korea began to record huge trade surpluses and faced international pressure to shift toward a more flexible exchange rate system . 
The Korean government introduced the managed floating exchange rate regime in 1990 . 
Since the won-dollar exchange rate under this system was determined in principle by market forces , the interbank foreign exchange market developed rapidly . 
Foreign exchange market liberalization coincided with capital market liberalization in the 1980s . 
Significant opening measures were implemented through the 1990s . 
In January 1992 , individual foreign investors were allowed to purchase domestic equities up to 3 percent of outstanding shares , but no more than 10 percent of a company 's shares in total were to be held by foreign investors . 
The government unveiled a blueprint in June 1993 for the liberalization and opening of the financial sector , aiming at substantial progress in financial market deregulation . 
Further capital account liberalization became inevitable when Korea joined the OECD in 1996 . 
But Korea was reluctant to liberalize Korea 's capital account for fear of a dramatic increase in foreign capital inflows seeking high interest rates in the domestic market . 
Most of the important liberalization measures were adopted under the IMF program in the aftermath of the 1997 financial crisis . 
In line with the IMF recommendations , the government agreed to undertake bold liberalization measures . 
The capital markets , including short-term money markets and the real estate markets , were opened completely to foreign investors . 
In December 1997 , the government raised the ceiling on overall foreign ownership of stocks to 50 percent from the previous 26 percent . 
The individual foreign shareholder ceiling was raised from 7 percent to 50 percent . 
These ceilings were abolished completely on May 25 , 1998 . 
All regulations on the purchases of foreign debt securities were eliminated in December 1997 . 
At the same time , all domestic enterprises , regardless of size , were allowed to borrow without limits from overseas , as long as the maturity did not exceed one year . 
All short-term money market instruments , including commercial papers and trade bills , also were fully liberalized on May 25 , 1998 . 
The new system was implemented in two stages to allow sufficient time for improvements to be made in prudential , regulatory and accounting standards before full liberalization . 
The first stage of foreign exchange liberalization was implemented on April 1 , 1999 . 
The liberalization of restrictions on capital movements was accompanied by a relaxation of rules governing the use of foreign exchange . 
The Foreign Exchange Transactions Act replaced the Foreign Exchange Management Act in April 1999 . 
In particular , The Foreign Exchange Transactions Act replaced the positive list system with a negative list system , allowing all capital account transactions except for those expressly forbidden by law . 
While foreign exchange dealings in the past were based on real demand , speculative forward transactions were permitted . 
The first stage of the new system eliminated the one-year limit on foreign commercial loans while liberalizing various short-term capital transactions by corporations and financial institutions . 
Moreover , foreign exchange dealing was opened to all eligible financial institutions . 
The main components of the first phase of the foreign exchange liberalization program were as follows : First , regulations on capital account transactions were converted into a negative system , lifting all restrictions except for those limited by law or decrees . 
Second , regulations on foreign exchange institutions were revised . 
For instance , requirements for engaging in foreign exchange activities were changed from a licensing to a registration system , thereby liberalizing the establishment of money exchangers . 
Third , safeguard measures were established in the event of a sudden increase in either capital inflows or outflows or extremely unfavorable market conditions . 
The second stage of liberalization was implemented from January 2001 . 
The notable features of the second phase of foreign exchange liberalization are as follows : 
First , restrictions on the obligatory repatriation of external claims were eased to enhance the efficiency of overseas economic activities by both individuals and businesses , and to provide adequate ex post facto control measures . 
Second , ceilings on overseas payments by residents were eliminated , including the 5,000 dollar per remittance ceiling on donation payments , the 10,000 dollar ceiling on overseas travel expenses ; the 50,000 and 20,000 dollar ceilings on overseas stay and education expenses respectively ; and the 1 million dollar ceiling on emigration expenses for a family of four . 
Instead , ex post facto control measures were introduced , including bank designation , automatic reporting to the National Tax Service , customs declarations , and prior notification to the Bank of Korea of large overseas payments . 
Third , regulations and restrictions in many fields were abolished or eased . 
The major changes were : -LRB- 1 -RRB- The regulations on the purchase and sale of foreign exchanges were eased . 
-LRB- 2 -RRB- Restrictions were ended on won-denominated deposits or trusts with less than one-year maturity held by non-residents in domestic financial institutions . 
-LRB- 3 -RRB- The range of allowance for overseas borrowing and won lending was expanded . 
-LRB- 4 -RRB- OTC -LRB- over-the - counter -RRB- securities transactions between residents and non-residents were liberalized . 
-LRB- 5 -RRB- In addition to the liberalization of the purchase of overseas real estate properties by corporations and financial institutions for business purposes , residents were allowed to acquire overseas real estate for the purpose of establishing schools , hospitals or places of worship as long as the Bank of Korea were notified of the transactions and approved residents . 
-LRB- 6 -RRB- Foreign exchange businesses were expanded . 
-LRB- 7 -RRB- Methods of corporate settlement were expanded . 
In May 2006 , the Korean government accelerated the implementation schedule of foreign exchange liberalization to support the Korean government plans to create a financial hub in Korea . 
This was seen as promoting the development of a more sophisticated foreign exchange market . 
The balance between foreign exchange supply and demand in Korea should be achieved by means of relaxed regulations in the medium - to long-term . 
In the meantime , the need to complement and further develop the current foreign exchange liberalization plan has been raised in response to changes in economic conditions . 
The foreign exchange liberalization plan was revised and included the following components : -LRB- 1 -RRB- facilitating the won 's internationalization ; -LRB- 2 -RRB- liberalizing foreign exchange transactions , including overseas investment by Korean citizens ; and -LRB- 3 -RRB- improving the micro-structure of the foreign exchange market by easing regulations on foreign exchange positions and further stimulating autonomous market-making by market participants . 
8 . 
3 Capital market liberalization 
In the early 1980s , the government allowed foreign banks to set up branches in Korea in order to attract foreign capital . 
The policy did not change in any significant way during the 1980s . 
In 1992 , the government allowed foreign securities firms to open branches , but not subsidiaries , in Korea . 
In 1996 , moves were undertaken to open the capital market wider due to Korea joining the OECD . 
In order to fulfill the OECD obligations as a member , the Korean government announced a plan to remove gradually barriers to foreign portfolio investments and foreign direct investments in financial services from OECD countries . 
The key elements of the plan announced in September 1996 included the following : -LRB- 1 -RRB- Foreign banks and securities firms from OECD countries would be permitted to establish subsidiaries in Korea by 1998 . 
-LRB- 2 -RRB- Foreign investment ceilings for investors from OECD countries were to be completely phased out by 2000 . 
-LRB- 3 -RRB- Foreign investors from OECD countries would be allowed to establish and hold 100-percent ownership of any type of financial institution by December 1998 . 
-LRB- 4 -RRB- Foreign investment consulting firms from OECD countries would be able to offer -LRB- 4 -RRB- Foreign investment consulting firms from OECD countries services without establishing a commercial presence in Korea . 
However , the liberalization process in the banking service sector was accelerated by the 1997 financial crisis . 
In order to attract foreign capital inflows , Korea opened Korea domestic bond market at the end of 1997 and proceeded to complete the opening of the domestic stock and money markets . 
Important steps were taken in the spring of 1998 to increase foreign access to the financial sector in Korea . 
Foreign banks and securities firms were allowed to establish subsidiaries in April 1998 . 
In addition , 100-percent foreign ownership of Korean financial institutions was allowed in the same month and foreign nationals were allowed to head Korean banks starting in May 1998 . 
A branch of a foreign bank is treated as an independent financial institution and independent operations are similar to those of subsidiaries of foreign banks , including retail businesses . 
There are no restrictions on establishing subsidiaries of foreign banks in Korea . 
The establishment of a new commercial bank , whether domestic or foreign , requires only the permission of the Financial Supervisory Commission -LRB- FSC -RRB- . 
The minimum capital required to establish a national commercial bank is 100 billion won , and 25 billion won for a regional bank . 
In addition , foreign banks in Korea have been allowed to establish local branches in the domestic market since March 1998 . 
Foreign exchange positions are regulated and the maximum allowed oversold position in the spot foreign exchange market is 5 million dollars or 3 percent of capital , whichever is greater . 
The previous limits to bank ownership of 4 percent for national banks , 8 percent for banks converted from other financial institutions and 15 percent for regional banks were eased by allowing the acquisition of shares in excess of these limits as long as the FSC was notified and gave the FSC approval . 
Foreign bank ownership of up to 100 percent was permitted in April 1999 , although subject to an additional review by the FSC in line with an increase in equity stakes beyond certain predetermined thresholds . 
Laws were enacted to strengthen the power of the board of directors at banks and to improve transparency in dealings with shareholders . 
Foreign directors have been permitted to sit on bank boards since May 1998 . 
Any foreign bank that meets the same conditions as a domestic bank is allowed to enter the market . 
Korea First Bank was sold in September 1999 to Newbridge Capital , a U.S. private equity fund , which was followed by the sale of Korea Exchange Bank to Lone Star Funds , a U.S. equity fund , in 2003 . 
Newbridge Capital subsequently sold Korea First Bank to Standard Chartered Bank in 2005 . 
Ceilings on stock investments by foreign investors were completely abolished in May 1998 , with the exception of investments in state-owned enterprises . 
The trading of corporate and government bonds was completely opened to foreign investors at the end of 1997 . 
Foreign investment in bonds issued by unlisted companies was allowed in July 1998 . 
The market for commercial papers -LRB- CPs -RRB- and certificates of deposit -LRB- CDs -RRB- were partially opened in February 1998 and completely opened in May 1998 . 
Restrictions on foreign investment in domestic securities were eliminated along with the requirement that domestic subsidiaries of foreign companies had to obtain government approval when bringing in more than 1 million dollars in financing from abroad . 
These measures led to an almost complete opening of the Korean capital market . 
8 . 
4 . 
Evaluation of financial opening 
The opening of Korean financial markets offers both benefits and risks . 
On the one hand , the financial opening has promoted increased investments and economic growth by providing financial resources at a lower cost and has contributed to the efficiency of domestic financial markets . 
On the other hand , the financial opening may result in excessive capital inflows , particularly of highly volatile short-term capital , which increase the risks of macroeconomic instability or lead to a financial crisis . 
Empirical results have found that the net inflow of foreign capital into Korea is positively related to domestic investments . 
In particular , overseas borrowing by domestic banks and companies has positive and significant effects on domestic investment , while the net capital inflows of both foreign direct investment and portfolio investments exert only weak influence on investment conditions . 
Foreign bank ownership helped Korean banks achieve higher efficiency , productivity and stability , although the net capital inflows of both foreign direct investment and portfolio investments did not necessarily lead to higher profitability . 
Foreign investments in the Korean stock market have reduced the effects of the so-called `` Korea discount '' phenomenon . 
Foreign investments have had a positive effect on the price/earnings ratio and price/book value ratio of Korean companies . 
In addition , the influence of foreign investors has not led Korean companies to cut capital investment spending or excessively increase dividend payments , as had been feared by critics of the financial market opening measures . 
Challenges remain in terms of finding ways to reduce the risk of a sudden reversal in capital flows that would result in a currency crisis , while means must also be found to strengthen the supervision of financial markets , eliminate corruption , improve transparency with better information disclosure mechanisms , and enhance corporate governance . 
These measures would help lessen the chances of new financial crises . 
Financial stability would be further strengthened by regional efforts on monetary and financial cooperation , such as the Chiang Mai Initiative , the establishment of an Asian Monetary Fund and the expansion of an Asian bond market . 
9 . 
Conclusion 
At the beginning of the 1960s , Korea was one of the poorest countries in the world . 
Then Korea 's exports suddenly began to expand rapidly , immediately following the three devaluations in 1960 and 1961 , as the devaluations nearly eliminated the overvaluation of the domestic currency . 
Since then the Korean economy grew and industrialized at rates that no one thought possible . 
This growth experience of Korea 's has often been described as being `` export-led '' and `` government-led , '' for the Korean government 's intervention in the market has been heavy-handed and extensive , especially in the 1960s and 1970s . 
The unexpected sharp rise in exports , especially that of labor-intensive manufacturing products , brought about a switch in development policy from import-substitution industrialization to export promotion in the mid-1960s . 
Import policy began to be liberalized at about the same time as the balance of payments improved . 
Korea joined the GATT in 1967 and began to scale down export promotion measures in the early 1970s . 
After a temporarily setback under the HCI policy in the 1970s , the import liberalization continued in the 1980s . 
Between 1980 and 1997 , Korea pursued a comprehensive market liberalization policy in response to changes in both the domestic economy and the increased influence of globalization . 
The 1997 financial crisis was a significant turning point that led to extensive changes in the Korean economy and society , which still continue today . 
Korea pushed ahead with further trade liberalization and economic reforms . 
Korea eliminated trade measures that were not compatible with WTO rules and phased out the import diversification program among others . 
In view of the discussion in this chapter , the role that the government played in Korea 's rapid growth has been somewhat different from the conventional wisdom . 
The sudden jump in exports in the early 1960s led to a policy switch from import-substitution industrialization to export promotion , not the other way round . 
In addition , it is misleading to say that Korea 's rapid growth was made possible only by government intervention . 
The economy 's rapid growth and industrialization could begin when two major impediments to international trade were eliminated . 
The first impediment was the overvaluation of won and The first impediment disappeared following three devaluations in the early 1960s . 
This enabled the Korean economy to realize the Korean economy export potential in labor-intensive manufacturing , in which the Korean economy had a natural comparative advantage . 
The second impediment to trade and growth was the protectionist import policy , which was the legacy of an industrialization based on import substitution . 
The depressing effects of the protectionist policy on exports were neutralized by the export promotion policy that began in the mid-1960s . 
This policy , in effect , cleared the roadblocks for Korean exports to the global market . 
The Korean economy was `` government-led '' to the extent that government intervention in the market was always heavy and extensive , but the global market rapid growth was not . 
In addition , the global market is misleading to disregard the role of imports in Korea 's growth . 
Korea 's amount of imports was bigger than exports as Korea 's played an important role in economic development , and the nation 's trade balance was always in deficit until the late 1980s . 
If Korea had been denied access to imported machinery and industrial materials , but had been forced to rely on Korean-made machineries and intermediate inputs , Korea 's exports would never have been competitive in the global market . 
In this sense , Korea 's growth was not only `` export - led '' but also `` import-led . '' 
There were numerous policies other than those on trade and exchange rates that were as important for Korea 's economic development . 
Regarding international economic cooperation , Korea made great efforts to improve economic cooperation through bilateral and regional agreements and providing development aid . 
Important bilateral agreements strengthened Korea 's economic and trade ties with the U.S. , Japan , China and the EU . 
Korea is well poised to enter a new era of economic relations following the FTA agreements with the U.S. and the EU . 
In terms of regional economic cooperation , Korea played a crucial role in initiating APEC in 1989 and the ASEAN +3 -LRB- Korea , China , Japan -RRB- following the 1997 financial crisis . 
In the area of development cooperation , Korea has recently embarked on increasing Korea 's development assistance and joined the OECD DAC in 2009 . 
As for agricultural liberalization policies , Korea earlier imposed trade barriers on imports and provided farm subsidies to reduce the dependence on imported foods . 
However , multilateral and bilateral agreements , including the UR and the pending Korea-U.S. FTA , have gradually reduced these barriers to a significant extent . 
It is advisable that Korea should make further progress in agricultural market opening . 
On the issue of the liberalization of service and financial sectors , this chapter pointed to a lackluster performance in the service sector in Korea . 
But following Mode 3 liberalization since 1990 , FDI in the service sector has increased remarkably . 
Liberalization of foreign exchange and financial markets began with capital market liberalization in the 1980s , and significant opening measures followed in the 1990s . 
Empirical studies found that net inflows of foreign capital to Korea were positively related to domestic investment . 
It is important , however , that measures must be taken to maintain financial and macroeconomic stability to counter the risks created by the free flow of international capital . 
Looking ahead , attention must be paid to the challenges and future policy tasks . 
First , the agenda for future international economic policy appears closely related to whether Korea will be able to make Korea 's domestic market more investment-friendly . 
FDI can potentially play an important role in Korea 's economy . 
But actual FDI performance is still far below Korea 's potential largely because the overall investment environment in Korea is not friendly enough . 
Second , Korea needs to put more effort into accelerating the DDA negotiations and the negotiations of other FTAs , in particular with China and Japan , following the conclusion of the FTA negotiations with the U.S. and the EU . 
Korea should not slow down Korea 's market opening but build on Korea 's free trade commitments to strengthen Korea 's competitiveness . 
Third , as liberalization progresses , it will become increasingly important to create economic , social and financial safety nets to protect the economy against adverse side effects . 
This is essential to gain public support for further economic reforms . 
Fourth , in order to maximize the benefits of openness , Korea needs to continue Korea 's reform efforts and create an efficient system of consensus-building for liberalization and open market policies . 
1 . 
Introduction 
Territorial policy has many aspects , the most important of which is coordinating territorial development and supplying physical infrastructure . 
When left to the private sector , territorial development can turn chaotic because of the difficulty in coordinating the different interests of concerned parties , including landowners . 
In addition , public goods may be supplied in insufficient amounts in the private market . 
Building a road , for example , contains the elements of both coordination and public-goods problems . 
The government should play an important role in overcoming these problems by drawing up development plans , imposing regulations , or investing in infrastructure . 
In Korea , territorial policy has assumed other responsibilities as well . 
Rapid economic growth generated price hikes in the real estate market . 
Due to the real estate market inelastic supply , the price of land in some areas -LRB- in particular the capital region -RRB- rose much faster than general inflation , which produced windfall gains to the landowners . 
The government was sometimes held directly accountable for such price hikes as The government carried out public development projects . 
The public concern over rising inequality and social injustice led the government to introduce various measures to suppress price hikes and distribute windfall gains to the general public . 
Another important task for the Korean government lay in fostering a balanced regional growth across the country . 
Korea 's industrialization and modernization was inevitably accompanied by the growth of cities . 
Cities provide large markets for labor , intermediate and final goods , and knowledge . 
Workers , firms and consumers gather to the cities to exploit the advantages offered by large markets . 
As the literature on economic geography illustrates , this agglomeration process is often self-reinforcing and results in the growth of large cities and falling population in rural areas -LRB- Krugman , 1991 ; Fujita and Krugman , 2004 -RRB- . 
The government is incapable of controlling the process completely , at least in a free market economy -LRB- Brackman , Garretsen and Schramm , 2004 -RRB- . 
Nonetheless , in Korea , the increasing gap between urban and rural areas in terms of education , jobs and other opportunities generated public demand for government intervention . 
From the early years , the Korean government has taken various steps to promote balanced growth , especially between the capital region and other areas . 
Korea 's territorial policy over the past sixty years has carried out these responsibilities in close relationship with the country 's economic and social policy . 
Between the 1960s and the 1980s , industrial development was concentrated in specific regions and `` growth centers , '' with the aim of using limited resources efficiently to support the country 's rapid economic growth . 
In the 1960s , the country 's first export park was launched in Guro-dong , Seoul . 
At that time , the number of businesses wanting to locate in the export park far exceeded the park 's capacity . 
The population of Seoul sharply increased from 10 percent of the country 's population in the 1960s to 18 percent in the 1970s . 
The sharp rise in the number of manufacturing operations in Seoul accelerated the population migration to the capital . 
The nation 's rate of urbanization , which was 37 percent in 1960 , jumped to 51 percent by 1970 . 
The population of Seoul , which was about 1 million at the time of liberation from colonial rule in 1945 , increased to 5.5 million by 1970 . 
In the 1970s , the Park Chung-hee administration -LRB- 1961-1979 -RRB- built large-scale coastal industrial complexes in the southeast area of the country as part of the heavy and chemical industry -LRB- HCI -RRB- drive . 
In the 1980s , The Chun Doo-hwan administration -LRB- 1980-1988 -RRB- supplemented and completed the Southeast Coastal Industrial Belt , while providing more infrastructures for industrial development , expanding the Saemaul -LRB- new village -RRB- Movement and promoting the reforestation of Korea 's mountainous landscape , which had been planned and started by the Park administration . 
In 1988 , Roh Tae-woo became president in a direct popular election , which ushered in a period of democratization . 
The country hosted the Olympic Games in 1988 and established diplomatic relations with communist countries , including Russia and China . 
In 1994 , the country adopted full-fledged local autonomy , thus opening the way for decentralization . 
Many civic organizations were created and began to raise Many civic organizations voices on important social issues . 
In the 1990s , the Kim Young-sam -LRB- 1993-1998 -RRB- and the Kim Dae-jung -LRB- 1998-2003 -RRB- administrations focused on improving the regional distribution of infrastructure projects . 
At the same time , the Kim Young-sam -LRB- 1993-1998 -RRB- and the Kim Dae-jung -LRB- 1998-2003 -RRB- administrations adopted a more market-oriented approach through the deregulation of land use . 
This was a departure from the previous territorial policy that was characterized by a myriad of regulations and plans . 
Under the New Economic Five-Year Plan , for example , the Kim Young-sam administration imposed special assessment charges for population overcrowding , which replaced previous regulations to limit building and facilities in order to prevent a concentration of people . 
In the 2000s , the modern transportation network was expanded to make the modern transportation network possible to reach any place in the country within half a day . 
The Roh Moo-hyun administration -LRB- 2003 - 2008 -RRB- stressed balanced regional development , pushing ahead with plans to build ten `` innovation cities '' and six `` enterprise cities '' around the country , while establishing the Multifunctional Administrative City , also known as Sejong City , in South Chungcheong Province to promote the transfer of government and public institutions out of the capital area . 
The current Lee Myung-bak administration -LRB- 2008-2013 -RRB- is concentrating on a plan to make more efficient use of the country 's land to improve national competitiveness . 
The current Lee Myung-bak administration -LRB- 2008-2013 -RRB- is taking steps to ease regulations over the capital region to develop The current Lee Myung-bak administration -LRB- 2008-2013 -RRB- into a globally attractive world-class metropolis . 
In addition , the administration is making efforts to establish a management system for green growth and to pursue the restoration of four major rivers . 
The territorial policy has helped change Korea 's physical landscape rapidly in line with Korea 's economic growth . 
As a result of continuous investment in roads , railways , seaports , airports and other infrastructure , the current level of government capital stock compares favorably with those in major economies -LRB- Joonook Choi , Decokhyun Ryu and Hyungsoo Park , 2005 -RRB- . 
But the government has been less successful in other missions － namely , stabilizing real estate prices and fostering a balanced regional growth － as Korea 's efforts were overwhelmed by market forces . 
In the following sections , we will give a more detailed explanation on the development of territorial policy during the last six decades and assess the last six decades performance . 
Before we continue , however , a brief look at Korea 's physical landscape and Korea 's administrative system is warranted . 
The Korean peninsula lies on the eastern rim of the Asian landmass , with access to the oceans as well as to the continent . 
The Korean peninsula encompasses a total of 217,330 km 2 － almost the same size as Britain or Romania . 
1 Mountainous terrain accounts for some two-thirds of the territory like Portugal , Hungary or Ireland . 
The peninsula features so many scenic mountains and rivers that Koreans have often likened their country to a beautifully embroidered brocade . 
The heavily indented coastlines of the peninsula are a beautiful sight . 
There are more than 3,300 islands with a circumference bigger than 300 m . 
The Republic of Korea occupies the southern part of the peninsula with a land area of 100,032 km 2 . 
The capital city of Seoul is located in the northwest region of the country -LRB- Figure 5-1 -RRB- . 
Local governments in Korea consist of two levels . 
The upper level comprises Seoul and six other metropolitan cities 2 and nine provinces , 3 while the lower level is made up of 230 districts . 
4 The capital region often refers to Seoul and Seoul neighbors , namely Gyeonggi Province and Incheon Metropolitan City . 
When we include metropolitan cities in the surrounding provinces , the country can be divided into six broad regions . 
Table 5-1 indicates that the capital region has shown the strongest population growth whereas Gangwon and Jeolla have continuously lost Gangwon and Jeolla residents . 
In 2008 , the capital region accounted for nearly half of the total population , Gyeongsang about one quarter and Chungcheong and Jeolla 10 percent each . 
2 . 
Agrarian land reform and post-war reconstruction from 1948 to the 1950s 
At the time of liberation in 1945 , rural society was comprised of a small number of farmers who owned a small number of farmers who owned their own land and a large number of tenant farmers own land and a large number of tenant farmers . 
The socioeconomic situation called for agricultural land reform to end the slave-like status of the tenant farmers . 
The constitution that established the Republic of Korea in 1948 guaranteed private land ownership and proclaimed the adoption of a capitalist economic system . 
Unlike the North , which employed a policy of land confiscation and the redistribution of land , agrarian reform in the South was carried out with compensation paid to landowners . 
The reform had considerable impact in promoting the capitalist system and economic development in the South in the 1960s and afterwards . 
The reform helped the South nurture a capitalist society by giving property rights to farmers unlike those in the North , where collective farms were the norm . 
The guarantee of private farmland ownership created the conditions for the guarantee of private property rights in other forms of economic activities -LRB- Hee-nam Jung , 1995 -RRB- . 
The Korean War broke out two years after the establishment of the Korean government , and destroyed much of country 's urban infrastructure and industrial facilities . 
More than half of the urban infrastructure , including roads , railways , bridges and power supply facilities , were damaged . 
An estimated 20 percent out of 3.28 million houses were destroyed . 
Large cities , including Seoul , Incheon and Daejeon , suffered severe damage . 
It is estimated that the number of those who were displaced came to more than 2 million . 
Most of the number of those who were displaced resettled in the cities . 
This placed a new burden on the cities at a time of rapid urbanization . 
The Rhee Syngman administration relied on `` land readjustment projects '' '' for reconstruction activities . 
Under this system , all owners of the land in a certain area first needed to agree in redeveloping all owners of the land in a certain area property as a whole . 
After the redevelopment , all owners of the land in a certain area were allocated new lots . 
A fixed portion of each owner 's land was taken by the developer . 
The developer , public or private , then sold The developer , public or private , in order to cover the cost of development . 
The program had the merit of reducing the government 's fiscal burden , as urban development could be carried out with the costs mainly borne by landowners . 
The land readjustment projects affected a total of 16.5 km 2 in 23 cities , including Seoul , Busan , Daegu and Incheon , from 1952 to 1959 , with main focus on postwar rehabilitation and the construction of new roads in urban areas . 
3 . 
Development of industrial parks and population migration to Seoul in the 1960s 
The development of industrial parks in the country started in the early 1960s . 
In January 1962 , the government announced the first of the Five-Year Economic Development Plans . 
Shortly after , the government proclaimed the Urban Planning Act , which replaced the Urban District Plan Ordinance issued during the colonial period . 
Although the act was not aimed at the development of industrial parks , the Urban Planning Act , which replaced the Urban District Plan Ordinance issued during the colonial period included a series of programs for industrial parks formation within the scope of urban planning , and adopted land readjustment projects in support of urban planning . 
Therefore , most of the industrial parks in the 1960s were created under the procedures of the Urban Planning Act . 
The government adopted a strategy of concentrating industries in regions with high growth potential , rather than dispersing investments nationwide , in consideration of the country 's limited financial resources . 
The regions selected for development included the Seoul-Incheon area due to the existing infrastructure and availability of urban services ; Ulsan , with The Mt. Taebaek area advantageous location and port ; and the Taebaek , Yeongsan River area for agriculture and resource development . 
The plan for the Seoul-Incheon area was implemented in the 1960s with the establishment of an export park . 
The Ulsan Industrial Park , designated in 1966 , was the starting point for the Southeast Coastal Heavy-Chemical Industry Belt that would be established in the 1970s and 1980s . 
The Mt. Taebaek area was designated for the development of raw materials , such as coal and cement . 
Cement would play an important role in the Saemaul Movement later . 
Coal made possible the reforestation of mountains as the reforestation of mountains replaced wood as fuel for households . 
In the early 1960s , cheap labor was nearly the country 's sole development resource . 
The government 's industrial policy was focused on the production of basic materials , such as fertilizer , cement and coal , and the development of labor-intensive export industries . 
Consequently , industrial parks were concentrated in Seoul , which had a sufficiently large labor force and other resources . 
Under the Export Industrial Park Formation Act of 1964 , the first Korea Export Industrial Park was established in Guro-dong , Seoul . 
The site had several advantages , including a sufficient workforce and easy accessibility to transport , electricity and water . 
Work on the 114-acre site began in December 1964 and was completed in February 1966 . 
The park attracted much attention and the site could not accommodate all the businesses wishing to locate there . 
The government designated a second 98-acre and a third 294-acre park and planned for the development of additional sites in Incheon , near Seoul . 
The success of the first Korea Export Industrial Park caused a boom in the creation of industrial parks by local governments . 
Nevertheless , the export industry parks located in the heart of the capital boasted considerable advantages that other industrial parks outside Seoul could not copy . 
The importance of Seoul to the nation 's manufacturing sector increased . 
The national share of secondary industries -LRB- manufacturing and mining -RRB- operating in Seoul rose from 23 percent in 1960 to 31 percent in 1970 , with a corresponding fall for other cities and provinces . 
The country 's industrial structure changed greatly under the Five-Year Plans . 
The primary industry ` share of GDP dropped to 29 percent by 1972 from 37 percent in 1962 , while the share of secondary industry rose from 16 percent to 24 percent in the same period . 
This caused changes in the employment structure . 
The percentage of workers in the primary industries fell from 63 percent to 51 percent between 1962 and 1972 , while those employed in secondary industries increased from 9 percent to 14 percent . 
Industrialization promoted urbanization . 
The nation 's urbanization rate rose from 37 percent in 1960 to 51 percent a decade later . 
The population of Seoul increased from 1 million to 5.54 million between 1945 and 1970 . 
This created a demand for large-scale urban development projects . 
The government enacted the Land Readjustment Project Act in August 1966 . 
Land readjustment projects involved the building of large housing estates and urban infrastructure , including roads , and were prevalent in the 1970s and 1980s . 
Seoul 's modern district of Gangnam , south of Han River , was a prime example of these projects . 
Railroads functioned as an engine for the country 's economy by transporting an increasing amount of everyday necessities and industrial supplies , such as fertilizer , cement and grains . 
The amount of goods to be transported rose sharply as a result of the increase in industrial production from the mid-1960s . 
Railroads accounted for 84 percent of the nation 's transportation capacity in 1962 , compared with 10 percent for highways and 6 percent for air and maritime services . 
The railroads were placed under severe strain in transporting goods , when the economy achieved a growth rate of 19 percent in 1966 . 
By 1969 , railroads still accounted for 72 percent of the nation 's transport , while the share for highways and maritime and air services were gradually increasing to 13 percent and 15 percent , respectively . 
During the first Five-Year Plan -LRB- 1962-1966 -RRB- , projects were undertaken to pave the roads in large cities and improve existing provincial roads , although the focus continued to be on constructing railroads . 
The building of the country 's first toll expressway was the brainchild of President Park Chung-hee . 
The building of the country 's first toll expressway became the backbone for the country 's network of highways . 
The Seoul-Incheon Expressway , opened in December 1968 , was the country 's first and contributed greatly to the increased transportation of goods around the capital region . 
The 428 km-long Seoul-Busan Expressway was completed in July 1970 after only two years and five months of construction . 
4 . 
Development corridors and the Saemaul Movement from 1970 to 1987 
4 . 
1 Development of the Southeast Coastal Industrial Belt 
The opening of the expressway linking the capital with the port city of Busan formed the backbone for a development plan in the 1970s based on a Seoul-Southeast corridor . 
The creation of the Southeast Coastal Industrial Belt , centered around Busan port , reflected a strategy of developing specific regions for different purposes , taking into account The creation of the Southeast Coastal Industrial Belt , centered around Busan port , access to resources and geographical advantages . 
Such a strategy was in step with the `` growth pole theory '' and `` the core-periphery theory '' favored in the 1950s -LRB- Myrdal , 1957 -RRB- . 
Under the Local Industry Development Act enacted in 1970 , the country established a system of providing state support for industrial parks , with 12 cities , including Seoul , establishing local industrial parks in the early 1970s . 
These parks helped support the growth of SMEs . 
But there were limits to how much light industry could contribute to the country 's economic development . 
As a result , President Park Chung-hee outlined President Park Chung-hee vision in President Park Chung-hee New Year press conference in 1973 of developing HCIs as a top economic priority . 
In February 1973 , the government launched the HCI Drive Committee , comprised of the relevant ministers and experts and headed by the prime minister . 
The HCI Planning Group , headed by the president ' chief economic advisor , was created to serve as a working-level unit to provide support for the Committee . 
The main function of the Committee was making final decisions on the policies concerning HCIs , including a comprehensive development plan , location and site plans , industry sector promotion plans , and industrial assistance programs . 
In February 1974 , the government established the Industrial Complex Development Corporation , charged with the construction of the industrial sites . 
The government invested 100 billion won in capital for the Corporation , which had special privileges , including tax exemptions , the right to appropriate land , and the right to borrow from overseas with the approval of the construction minister . 
Following a systemic review of the plan for the HCI drive , the government commenced work on the giant coastal industrial complexes . 
These complexes , which would be larger than the industrial parks in the country 's interior , were based on the concept the giant coastal industrial complexes would evolve into new industrial cities . 
Three factors governed the creation and operation of the complexes . 
One was that the complexes would promote economies of scale when the complexes came to the production of iron and steel , oil refining and industries based on non-ferrous metal manufacturing . 
Second , the complexes would promote the efficient use of natural resources since there were only a limited number of candidate sites able to meet the requirements for port facilities , water , and proximity to nearby cities . 
Third , the complexes were meant to promote the growth of new industrial cities . 
Changwon was developed as a completely new city , while Yeocheon was developed as a satellite city close to an industrial park . 
The small towns of Ulsan and Pohang grew into industrial cities . 
Most of the industrial complexes were located along the southeast coast , including Pohang , Ulsan , Onsan , Okpo , Jukdo and Changwon , while a few others were built in the rest of the country , including Yeocheon at Gwangyang Bay on the southern coast and Bukpyeong on the east coast . 
These areas had previously been regarded as remote rural areas , but grew rapidly between the mid-1970s and mid-1980s due to the HCI program . 
During the Chun Doo - hwan administration , POSCO Gwangyang Steelworks and Daebul Industrial Park in Mokpo were added to the Southeast Coastal Industrial Belt . 
POSCO Gwangyang Steelworks and Daebul Industrial Park in Mokpo inclusion was partly due to political considerations to appease the Jeolla region , which had opposed the Chun administration with an urban uprising in 1980 , and partly out of a perceived need to create a counter-magnet to the capital region . 
In the case of POSCO , POSCO original steelworks in Pohang had reached full production capacity and POSCO needed to build a new steel plant . 
Asan Bay and Gwangyang Bay were considered as candidate sites . 
But it was pointed out that a steelworks in Asan Bay would be close to Seoul and would contribute to the problem of overpopulation in the capital region , while a steelworks in Gwangyang would contribute to the industrialization of Jeolla , which was less developed . 
After debates among the relevant ministers and interested parties , President Chun decided that Gwangyang Bay would represent the westward extension of the Southeast Coastal Industrial Belt . 
Meanwhile , the development of industrial parks in interior urban areas continued as in the 1960s , but the development of industrial parks in interior urban areas were less important than the coastal industrial complexes in terms of land size , the amount of attention the development of industrial parks in interior urban areas received by the government , and the development of industrial parks in interior urban areas participation in the development boom . 
The number of interior industrial parks grew to 15 , covering a total area of 16.8 km 2 in the decade following the Industrial Park Development Promotion Act . 
But The number of interior industrial parks size was no more than 5 percent of that of the 14 coastal areas , which covered a total of 315.0 km 2 . 
South Gyeongsang Province emerged as a main industrial region as a result of the coastal industrial complex policy . 
Between 1966 and 1980 , national employment in the mining and manufacturing sectors increased by 9 percent . 
Only two provinces , Gyeonggi and South Gyeongsang , recorded faster growth rates than this , while the rate for North Gyeongsang was on a par with the national average . 
The number of workers in the mining and manufacturing grew by 15 percent in South Gyeongsang compared to 17 percent for Gyeonggi during this period . 
But between 1975 and 1980 , the manufacturing job growth rate was slightly higher in South Gyeongsang than in Gyeonggi . 
4 . 
2 Attempts to curb growth in the capital region 
The population of Seoul grew 5.5-fold over 25 years , from 1 million to 5.54 million between 1945 and 1970 . 
The rapid population increase created social problems as the reconstruction of housing , water supplies , sewage and roads in Seoul that were damaged during the Korean War had not been fully completed yet . 
In addition , the concentration of population and central administrative functions in Seoul was regarded as a serious security weakness due to the capital 's proximity to North Korea . 
In 1964 , the government adopted measures to curb overpopulation in Seoul . 
However , the measures were not effective due to the policy of encouraging industrial investments , which led to Seoul 's continued growth . 
Nonetheless , the government 's basic policy was still to control the concentration of population and industry in Seoul by promoting economic and government activities elsewhere in the country . 
Due to national security concerns , the government in 1970 created an urban plan that would curb population growth north of the Han River , an area that was more vulnerable to an attack from the North . 
Since the concentration of the population in Seoul created a serious problem for national defense , the issue received top priority . 
In 1971 , a system of Restricted Development Zones , or `` greenbelts , '' was adopted under the Urban Planning Act , and the first such zones were designated on the outskirts of the capital . 
Greenbelts were also created for 14 cities between 1971 and 1977 . 
Under the Distribution of Industry Act in 1977 , measures were taken to encourage businesses to set up operations outside Seoul . 
This included building the new Banwol Industrial City near Seoul . 
However , only a small percentage of the factories in Seoul relocated there . 
In the early 1980s , the government enacted the Capital Region Management Planning Act -LRB- 1982 -RRB- in another attempt to control the excessive concentration of population and industries in the capital region . 
A Basic Plan for Management of the Capital Region was unveiled in 1984 to cover urban development over the next 12 years . 
While the policy measures governing growth in the capital region in the 1970s strongly smacked of direct government intervention , those in the 1980s relied more on relevant legal and institutional frameworks to affect changes . 
In the 1980s , the measures to curb population and industrial growth in the capital region included expanding the scope of regulations over Incheon and Gyeonggi . 
It was recommended that industrial plants , universities and public institutions in the capital region be relocated to other areas of the country . 
Businesses willing to move from the capital region were given tax exemptions or tax cuts starting in the late 1970s . 
These policy measures influenced additional measures taken later in the 1990s . 
But problems resulting from overpopulation in the capital region continued to grow , including environmental pollution , deterioration in urban living conditions , and a growing gap between rich and poor . 
As a result , the government 's emphasis shifted to promoting balanced regional development among the regions rather than concentrating on efforts to tackle problems within the capital region . 
4 . 
3 Infrastructure expansion 
The building of ports was seen as crucial in providing the physical infrastructure necessary for industry . 
Under the third Five-Year Plan -LRB- 1972-1976 -RRB- , construction was begun of second-generation ports to handle bulk cargo , such as coal . 
The country needed large ports capable of handling large imports of raw materials needed for the nation 's economic development . 
The development of port facilities also helped support the establishment of the industrial parks . 
The country 's transportation needs previously depended mainly on the railroads . 
The successful completion of the first three Five-Year Plans -LRB- 1962-1976 -RRB- led to the development of alternative transportation means , including expressways . 
The different transportation systems competed with , and complemented , each other . 
By 1976 , the railroads accounted for 51 percent of the nation 's transport usage , down from 87 percent in 1962 , while that for roads grew to 22 percent from 9 percent . 
In the latter half of the 1970s , the country changed the focus of the country road transportation policy due to new industrial demands . 
Under the second and third Five-Year Plans , the primary attention had been on the construction of expressways . 
With the fourth Five-Year Plan -LRB- 1977-1981 -RRB- , the government concentrated more on the construction of industrial roads to support the development of HCIs . 
Expressway construction was focused on road projects that would link the industrial parks to the national expressway network . 
In the early 1980s , the focus of expressway construction projects shifted to promoting balanced development among the regions . 
The two-lane Daejeon-Mokpo Expressway was expanded to four lanes to meet a sharp increase in traffic volume . 
Expressway sections suffering from chronic congestion were also expanded , including those on the Seoul - Incheon , Seoul-Busan , Daegu-Masan and South Coast Expressways . 
These road projects helped develop backward areas . 
The percentage of paved roads , which was still only 34 percent of total roads at the end of 1981 , jumped to 54 percent in 1986 . 
From the 1970s to the early 1980s , multi-purpose dams were built across the country , 5 which increased water supplies needed by a growing population and industry . 
water supplies needed by a growing population and industry marked a turning point in tapping water resources on the lower reaches of the rivers . 
The concept of water resources development , once confined to the development of small-scale irrigation facilities , expanded to cover the comprehensive development of whole river basins , both for water resource management and flood control . 
The dams also provided the basic infrastructure for further economic development . 
4 . 
4 Saemaul Movement and reforestation 
The country posted record growth under the Five-Year Plans , but economic development , which centered on industrialization , deepened the gap between urban and rural areas . 
Many people left the rural areas to start new lives in the cities . 
The growing discontent of the farmers became a political issue for the government . 
Unemployment and poverty emerged as social issues . 
The farming sector was faced with a labor shortage , which caused a rise in agricultural production costs and threatened the future of the sector . 
It was necessary to improve the income of farm households and encourage people to remain in rural areas by offering more employment opportunities . 
These challenges required drastic measures to reverse the problems caused by unbalanced growth resulting from rapid industrialization . 
The Saemaul Movement was thus started with the aim to improve rural living conditions in such areas as roads , housing , water supply , sewage and irrigation . 
These government efforts included developing new varieties of rice as part of the Green Revolution and carrying out large-scale reclamation projects to create farmland . 
The Saemaul Movement , which also served as a national morale-boosting movement , sought to reinvigorate the country . 
The Saemaul Movement , which also served as a national morale-boosting movement , stressed the principles of self-help , self-reliance and cooperation and the movement was later adopted by factories in urban areas . 
The Saemaul Movement was launched in 1971 with the aim of increasing the income of the rural population by expanding various forms of economic activity . 
In the beginning , the Ministry of Internal Affairs played a leading role in the movement , providing cement supplies , for example , through the local administrative network . 
More ministries later became involved in carrying out Movement-related programs , such as helping rural households find alternative sources of work in the off-season , forming cooperatives for the production of rice and barley , supplying electricity to rural areas , and building factories . 
Central and local organizations , now known as the National Council of the Saemaul Movement in Korea , were established to coordinate Saemaul activities carried out by the ministries . 
The Saemaul Movement had three early objectives in promoting the modernization of rural areas , which was summed up in the `` three liberations '' : liberation from jigae , the A-shaped back-pack frame used to carry heavy loads -LRB- meaning improvements in farming tools and transport -RRB- ; liberation from candlelight -LRB- meaning power supplies -RRB- ; and liberation from chogajip , or straw-roofed houses -LRB- meaning improvements in living conditions -RRB- . 
Soon , the movement came to tap the community spirit among rural villagers to promote development practices in various areas , including dairy farming , fishing and local processing industries , in addition to farming . 
For a time in the 1980s , farm household incomes were higher than those for urban households , but the situation soon reversed again . 
There were increasing calls that a new development strategy should be adopted to extend beyond the limits of an agriculture - centered , village-level rural development program . 
It was agreed that the development program should be carried out on a more comprehensive level to embrace all phases of daily life , while bringing rural centers and outlying districts closer together . 
In 1982 , the Ministry of Internal Affairs adopted a new policy concept called Rural Settlement Area Development to promote comprehensive development projects . 
Five urban and rural districts -LRB- si and gun -RRB- were selected as a pilot project in 1985 . 
The development plan , however , was found to require too large a budget and thus The development plan was replaced by township -LRB- myeon -RRB- rural settlement area development projects under the Rural Area Rehabilitation Act . 
The industrial parks development boom in the 1980s created rural industrial parks whose main purpose was to help rural households gain income from sources other than farming . 
Previously , there were programs to create sideline jobs for farm households , such as building Saemaul-related facilities . 
But programs to create sideline jobs for farm households , such as building Saemaul-related facilities had many problems since programs to create sideline jobs for farm households , such as building Saemaul-related facilities were carried out in an uncoordinated manner and were not closely linked with the existing infrastructure . 
In response , the government established small - and medium-sized industrial parks in rural areas , offering various incentives , such as offering land at cheap prices , tax and financial benefits , and streamlining approval procedures to attract businesses . 
The government launched the Planning Group for the Development of Non-Farming Income Sources in 1981 and enacted the Rural Area Income Source Development Promotion Act in 1983 . 
As a result , work on the development of rural industrial parks was started , with the selection of model projects in 1984 . 
The number of rural industrial parks reached a peak between 1987 and 1990 before starting to decline . 
In the aftermath of the 1997 financial crisis , many businesses in rural industrial parks collapsed , leading to criticism that the parks had housed many unprofitable and marginal businesses . 
Reforestation efforts were made into a national campaign and all relevant administrative units were mobilized as in the Saemaul Movement . 
Back in the 1940s and 1950s , wood was used as the main household fuel and that was the biggest factor causing deforestation . 
The problems associated with the destruction of forests would not be solved until the 1960s when fossil fuels gradually replaced wood . 
Forest acreage started to expand and the number of trees in the mountains increased rapidly from 1973 , reversing a decline that had started in 1927 . 
Slash-and-burn farming was stopped as the government offered financial incentives to find alternative ways of making a living . 
Continuing demand for wood could be met with imports , thanks to the liberalization of the international timber trade . 
In this respect , it can be said the nation 's economic development basically stopped the devastation of forests . 
Lester R. Brown , the founder and president of the Earth Policy Institute in the U.S. said , `` South Korea is in many ways a reforestation model for the rest of the world -LRB- Brown , 2006 -RRB- . '' 
4 . 
5 Promotion of large-scale reclamation projects 
Reclaimed land emerged as an alternative to the loss of farmland caused by the growth of cities and industry . 
Land reclamation was seen as achieving several objectives . 
Land reclamation met the demand for more urban and industrial land , Land reclamation created good quality agricultural land as the country sought to achieve self-sufficiency in food production , Land reclamation contributed to the formation of the coastal industrial parks and port facilities , and Land reclamation secured water resources for agricultural , industrial and household uses by forming reservoirs of desalinated water . 
Under the Public Waters Reclamation Act of 1962 , large-scale reclamation projects were supervised by the Ministry of Construction , with the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry being responsible for developing farmland on the reclaimed land . 
Government and private-sector projects created a total of 1,136 districts of reclamation land in the 1960s and 233 districts in the 1970s . 
But while the number of government reclamation projects fell in the 1970s as more attention was paid to the building of the HCI complexes , private businesses continued to carry out reclamation projects for the creation of farmland . 
More reclamation projects were pursued in the 1980s . 
The Saemangeum Reclamation Project , for example , was established toward the end of the Chun Doo-hwan administration with the intention to promote the economic development of North Jeolla Province , a stronghold of the political opposition . 
The current focus is on completing previously planned reclamation projects . 
Since 1945 , the total area created by reclamation projects has amounted to 82,250 ha , while another 52,528 ha of land is in the process of being formed . 
But there was growing controversy over the reclamation projects in the 1990s . 
Critics said such projects were becoming economically inefficient since there was no need for more farmland due to the surplus in the rice supply . 
As a result , reclamation projects in Donga District in Gimpo and the Sihwa District in Hwaseong , both in Gyeonggi , were switched from farmland to industrial use . 
In the case of the Donga Reclamation Site in Gimpo , which was completed in 1991 , it took a total of 10 years to decide how to use the reclaimed land , which was finally set aside as a site for a thermal power plant and a part of the Incheon Free Economic Zone . 
For the Sihwa project , completed in 1994 , the authorities abandoned plans for the authorities to become farmland and a freshwater lake because of the deterioration in the water quality after the construction of a tide embankment . 
Instead , the authorities will now be the site of the Sihwa Multi-Techno Valley , with the goal of creating a Green City and a nearby international theme park . 
A tidal power plant , said to be the world 's largest , is also nearing completion . 
The Saemangeum reclamation project in North Jeolla has taken a similar path . 
The project , which began in 1991 , was originally intended to create 40,000 ha of farmland and develop agricultural water resources , after the completion of a 33.4 km-long tidal embankment by 2004 . 
In 2009 , it was decided that the plan should be changed in response to many years of controversy that the project was destroying the ecological system of the wetlands and was no longer economically feasible for use as farmland . 
Under the new plan , the portion of the reclaimed land designated as farmland will be reduced from 70 percent to 30 percent , while that for industrial and tourism use will be expanded drastically . 
The government hopes to turn the area into a technology and entertainment hub , the `` City of Neo Civitas . '' 
But The government success as a world-class `` luxury brand composite city '' will depend on whether The government can remain a clean water area . 
It will be necessary to take measures that will prevent the deterioration of water quality resulting from the reclamation dikes , which earlier caused the environmental problems at Sihwa Lake . 
5 . 
The pursuit of a better quality of life and globalization from 1988 to the 1990s 
5 . 
1 Improvements in living conditions 
People sought an improvement in the quality of life as incomes rose . 
In addition , a series of pollution accidents in the 1990s prompted more attention being paid to environmental issues . 
The importance of environmental protection was underscored by the release of tons of phenol into the Nakdong River in 1991 ; the contamination of the upper reaches of the Nakdong River on two occasions in 1994 ; the degradation of Sihwa Lake due to reclamation ; and an oil spill from a tanker , the Sea Prince , off the southern coast in 1995 . 
The environmental challenges confronting the country had gradually increased with the development of HCIs , the concentration of population in the cities , a rapid rise in the number of cars starting in the 1980s , and the emergence of a consumption culture based on affluent lifestyles in the 1990s . 
However , the country has not kept up with these economic developments in terms of establishing basic environmental facilities , such as waste dump sites , ultramodern waste incinerators , or sewage treatment plants . 
Problems associated with industrial waste and wastewater frequently became political and social issues rather than just environmental management problems . 
By the 1990s , the country 's environmental conditions had deteriorated to a level much worse than that in many advanced countries . 
In the 1990s , the government decided to adopt means to promote a more environment - friendly economic development policy , including expanding waste treatment facilities . 
Economic regulations were tightened to reduce pollution and new production processes were installed to restrict the emission of pollutants . 
New environmental fees were introduced since a system of special assessment charges on water and air pollutants introduced in 1983 had not been tough enough to force the adoption of better environmental practices by industry and consumers . 
The government , starting in 1992 , imposed additional environment charges on vehicle owners and polluting industries , with the fees collected being used for investments in environmental protection . 
These measures helped raise the public 's consciousness about environmental problems . 
But the fees created controversy since the government held consumers and distributors partly responsible for environmental damage , which was in contrast to the previous attitude that put the burden mainly on industries to reduce pollution . 
A waste-related deposit-refund system -LRB- 1991 -RRB- and a waste disposal charge system -LRB- 1994 -RRB- were adopted to encourage the recycling of waste and more environment-friendly consumption patterns . 
An E-Mark system was introduced to alert consumers to environment-friendly products , along with a pay-per-bag trash system in 1995 . 
The waste disposal charges amounted to a type of environmental tax . 
Under the waste - related deposit-refund system , for example , a company had to deposit an amount of money to ensure that a company dealt with harmful waste or substances that a company had produced . 
The pay-per-bag trash system that was imposed on individuals is credited with decisively contributing to waste reduction . 
As a result of these efforts , key environmental indices showed a considerable improvement in the 1990s . 
The total amount of emitted pollutants in the air fell due to the increased availability of less-polluting fuels and vehicles despite a rise in the annual consumption of fuels . 
Solid waste showed a similar trend . 
With the adoption of the pay - per-bag trash system , the per-capita amount of trash disposed daily was reduced to about 1 kg , while there was a drastic increase in the rate of waste recycling and a sharp decrease in the amount of waste stored underground or incinerated . 
5 . 
2 Housing construction projects and the public stewardship land policy 
In August 1988 , the Roh Tae-woo administration -LRB- 1988-1993 -RRB- announced comprehensive real estate measures to reduce land speculation deals and increase the housing supply . 
Under three laws enacted in December 1989 , which reflected the concept of `` public stewardship toward land policy , '' the government placed a limit on the ownership of housing lots , imposed a tax on excessive profits earned from land sales , and introduced development charges . 
In 1989 , a composite land tax was adopted . 
Although these laws were later ruled unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court , three laws enacted in December 1989 , which reflected the concept of `` public stewardship toward land policy played a considerable role in suppressing real estate speculation and stabilizing the land and housing markets . 
In addition , under the newly enacted Act on Posted Land Prices and Land Assessment , an official system of posting land prices was introduced , with the standard land price serving as the basis for calculating land taxes and special assessments -LRB- Young-pyo Kim et . 
al , 1991 ; Mi-ock Chae , 1995 -RRB- . 
On April 13 , 1990 , the government announced measures for controlling real estate speculation and made the government obligatory to register the ownership of all real estate with the authorities . 
Under the measures , the categories of land subject to mandatory reporting , and whose sale needed official approval , was expanded . 
More rigorous criteria were adopted for real estate owned by firms for non-business-related purposes to discourage companies from owning unnecessarily large real estate holdings . 
While the government tried to suppress speculative demand for land , the government sought to increase the supply of land for new urban projects as the government began to build 2 million housing units in 1989 and develop five new cities in 1992 . 
Such radical measures contributed greatly to the stabilization of the real estate market in the early 1990s , although the stabilization of the real estate market in the early 1990s caused adverse side effects such as a shortage of construction materials . 
At the start of the Roh Tae-woo administration , demand for housing was increasing , but the supply of new housing remained at a paltry 200,000 houses a year due to insufficient investments , which resulted in a housing shortage -LRB- Table 5-5 -RRB- . 
The housing supply ratio , which stood at 71.2 percent in 1980 , dropped to 69.2 percent by 1987 , and house prices , particularly those for apartments in the Seoul region , jumped dramatically . 
The soaring prices for homes and jeonse -LRB- housing lease deposits -RRB- caused by the economic boom added to the burden of housing costs for low-income families . 
The housing shortage became a major problem for the government due to political protests about soaring housing prices . 
In May 1988 , judging that only a drastic increase in the supply of houses could solve the problem , the government announced a plan for the construction of 2 million housing units over the next five years , which became a significant turning point in the country 's housing policy . 
The plan differed from previous housing policies in that homes were allocated on the basis of a family 's income and earnings potential . 
Housing speculation was sharply reduced by giving housing priority to those who did not own a home , while the homes could not be resold within a specified period of time . 
The imbalance in housing distribution was remedied to a certain extent . 
The imbalance in housing distribution also provided various ownership incentives , such as financing support and tax benefits , to low income households . 
The number of new housing units rose by 412,000 in 1988 , 462,000 in 1989 and by 750,000 in 1990 , compared to the annual average increase of 220,000 between 1980 and 1987 . 
The housing plan was completed with the construction of 2.14 million houses -LRB- 33 percent of the total housing stock of 6.45 million as of 1987 -RRB- by August 1991 , which was ahead of schedule . 
The government constructed 780,000 apartments as called for under the plan , and the private sector built 1,430,000 units , which was in excess of the original target . 
Private builders were given incentives to participate in the apartment construction plan , such as replacing a ceiling on the sales price of apartments with a cost-peg system ; relaxing regulations on floor space and building-to-land ratios ; and tax and financial benefits . 
The housing supply ratio rose drastically . 
The country maintained a robust supply of new housing in the following years . 
Under the New Five-Year Economic Plan -LRB- 1993-1997 -RRB- , the Kim Young-sam administration refrained from state intervention in the market , while providing support to the private sector for reviving economic growth . 
the Kim Young-sam administration policy objectives were an increase in the housing supply , the stabilization of housing prices , the provision of affordable housing to low-income families , and improving the quality of existing homes . 
The Five-Year Plan 's support measures for the private sector included the streamlining of administrative procedures -LRB- particularly for building authorization and approval -RRB- , relaxation of regulations concerning building refurbishment or remodeling , and the development of private rental businesses . 
The Five-Year Plan 's also included measures for the reduction of government intervention in the market . 
In sum , a total of 3.12 million housing units were built , compared to a target of 2.85 million , since the early 1990s . 
The new housing units included 1.16 million in the public sector and 1.96 million in the private sector . 
By region , 1.37 million , or 44 percent , were located in the capital region and 1.75 million , or 56 percent , in other areas . 
The housing supply ratio rose from 69.8 percent in 1985 to 86.0 percent in 1995 and 92.0 percent in 1997 . 
5 . 
3 Improving regional competitiveness in preparation for globalization 
From the mid-1990s , there was strong push for deregulation so that the private sector would take the lead in economic development . 
The private sector assumed a greater role in land development , which had once been the preserve of the state sector . 
Individuals were allowed to carry out land development projects in `` semi-agricultural areas '' as a result of changes to the national land use plan . 
In August 1994 , the Act on Attracting Private Capital for Infrastructure Facilities was enacted to promote the financing by private capital of infrastructure investment projects . 
Consideration was given to selecting special economic zones to attract foreign capital . 
The Act on Foreigners ' Land Acquisition and Management was enacted to help foreign investors acquire domestic land easily . 
The Special Act on the Relaxation of Regulations over Business Activities was enacted to ease rules concerning land use associated with business activities . 
Agricultural regulations were also relaxed in connection with the need to improve the competitiveness of the domestic agricultural sector in response to the opening of the local agricultural market with the signing of the Uruguay Round agreement . 
Under the Farmland Act , amended in January 1996 , the ceiling on the ownership of farmland of 7.35 acres was abolished in `` agriculture promotion areas . '' 
The ceiling on farmland ownership outside the agriculture promotion area was raised to 12.25 acres . 
The longstanding principle that farmland should belong to working farmers , together with the farmland ownership ceiling that had been maintained since 1948 , were relaxed or abolished , indicating a switch in emphasis in the agricultural policy from equality to production efficiency . 
The Kim Young-sam administration put stress on the establishment of large-scale integrated local economic structures to promote balanced regional development while strengthening local competitiveness in a globalized economy . 
The strategy focused on eight select areas . 
6 This development approach was an extension of the regional growth center strategy , but The strategy encompassed a wider range of large provincial cities , industrial complexes and outlying areas with a strong capacity for growth , rather than focusing on the role of a single city as practiced under the regional growth center strategy . 
One of the representative regional development projects promoted in the 1990s was the West Coast Development Project . 
A relatively backward area in terms of production and household income , the west coast area , comprising South Chungcheong and North and South Jeolla , was a major target for development in terms of achieving balanced regional development . 
The development project included the creation of the Gunsan Industrial Park -LRB- which would serve as a launch pad for trade with China -RRB- , the Gunsan-Janghang Industrial Complex , and the construction of the 352 km-long West Coast Expressway . 
Policy measures taken for the capital region in the 1990s were focused on increasing national competitiveness in response to globalization . 
This was different from the regional development policies adopted in the 1980s , which stressed balanced national development . 
The new government believed balanced development should not be pursued at the expense of market forces since this could result in a distorted economic structure . 
The New Five-Year Economy Plan reduced the number of land use zones from five to three for more flexible land use , adopted special assessment charges levied on activities causing overpopulation instead of relying on regulations relating to physical space , and eased regulations on the total size of areas zoned for factory sites in the capital region . 
In July 1994 , under the amended Enforcement Ordinance of the Act on Industrial Location and Establishment of Factories , 11 large-sized businesses engaged in seven high - tech sectors , such as computer and electronics , were allowed to expand electronics facilities by up to 30 percent in `` growth management zones '' in the capital region . 
With increased local autonomy and the easing of various regulations that had been imposed under the National Land Use Zoning Act , local governments started vying with each other to attract high-tech businesses and international events . 
For example , the Pusan International Film Festival , which started in 1996 , has joined the ranks of the world 's top five film festivals . 
It has been pointed out , however , that the revision of National Land Use Zoning Act , especially the integration of land use zones from five to three , caused reckless development and adverse side effects , such as environmental damage , particularly in the capital region , due to a lack of systematic planning supervision . 
5 . 
4 Infrastructure projects and the trend toward decentralization 
In the late 1990s , the government adopted policy guidelines to encourage more local participation in the planning of infrastructure to promote balanced regional development and improve economic efficiency , reversing a previous focus on top-down management . 
Among the issues covered by the policy guidelines were ways to relieve chronically congested sections of roads . 
Under the Third Comprehensive Territorial Development Plan -LRB- 1992-2001 -RRB- , proposals called for a grid-shaped expressway system , known as the 7x9 network , comprising seven north-south expressways and nine east-west expressways . 
Plans also called for the building of radial or loop-shaped arterial expressway networks around the big metropolises , including Seoul , Busan , Daegu , Gwangju and Daejeon . 
Building such a gargantuan network of expressways could only be done at huge cost . 
The situation was not financially favorable as road construction costs had risen sharply due to the escalation in land prices following the real estate speculation boom starting in the 1970s . 
It was not possible to push ahead with the plan under the existing financing arrangements . 
The government replaced the Road Special Account Act , which had been enacted in 1988 for road construction , with the Traffic Facility Special Account Act . 
Under the new act , 67.5 percent of traffic taxes and the entire amount of car-related special excise taxes could be used for the construction of roads , railroads and ports . 
As a result , infrastructure spending rose from 5.3 percent of central government spending in 1989 to 10.5 percent by 1999 . 
5 . 
5 The Asian financial crisis and the relaxation of land use regulations 
In November 1997 , the country was hit by a foreign exchange crisis . 
It was necessary to undertake extensive economic restructuring and deregulation in various sectors . 
The newly inaugurated Kim Dae-jung administration abolished many regulations on real estate transactions to increase the number of sales . 
The requirement that real estates sales in certain designated areas had to be reported for approval was abolished . 
Regulations on land owned by companies for non-business purposes were cut drastically . 
The limit on the ownership of land for housing and the excessive-profit tax on land sales was dropped . 
Property-related taxes were lowered to increase demand for land in the private sector . 
The government stepped up the stockpiling of land to counter shrinking demand for land in the private sector . 
There were limits to dealing with the problem of surplus land if only domestic financial resources were to be relied upon during the economic crisis . 
As a result , the domestic property market was completely opened to foreign investors in 1998 . 
In addition , new property financing techniques were adopted in 1998 to facilitate real estate securitization , including asset backed securitization -LRB- ABS -RRB- , mortgage-backed securitization -LRB- MBS -RRB- and real estate investment trusts -LRB- REITs -RRB- . 
The property market was stabilized by early 2000 , helped by such measures . 
6 . 
Promoting regional balance and green growth in the 2000s 6 . 
1 Expansion of transportation networks 
The country ushered in an era of rapid geographical accessibility with the construction of the 7x9 grid-shaped expressway network , including the West Coast Expressway and the Seoul Ring Expressway , and the launch of the Seoul-Busan High-Speed Railroad -LRB- KTX -RRB- in April 2004 . 
The total distance of expressways increased from 2,131 km in 2000 to 3,368 km in just 7 years . 
The west coast region has been less developed than the areas along the Seoul-Busan corridor . 
However , The west coast region offers geographical advantages in connection with Korea 's growing economic ties with China , the availability of sufficient water resources and much idle land suitable for factories . 
Believing that the region had high development potential , the government started building the West Coast -LRB- Incheon-Mokpo -RRB- Expressway , extending China from the Incheon-Ansan section , in 1990 and completed the 353 km-long expressway by December 2001 . 
There was also a need to alleviate chronic traffic congestion in the capital region . 
In 1988 , work began on the Pangyo-Guri Expressway as the first phase of the Seoul Outer Ring Expressway . 
The project met stiff resistance from residents in some sections due to concerns about environmental damage . 
Work on the 127 km-long ring expressway was finally completed with the opening of the Mt. Sapae Tunnel in 2008 . 
In large cities featuring high population density and heavy traffic volume , subways have played a pivotal role in transportation . 
Long-distance express buses making only a few stops serve a role similar to that of subways . 
With the restructuring of the public transportation system in 2004 , Seoul adopted a public transportation fare system based on integrated , distance-based calculations . 
With the restructuring of the local bus system , electronic traffic cards `` T-Money '' -RRB- -LRB- came to be widely used . 
As of 2008 , about 90 percent of people using public transportation used the traffic card for fare payments . 
Preparations are being made to have traffic cards replace all other means of paying public transportation fare , including taxis , throughout the country . 
Since the 1990s , the local bus companies in Seoul encountered financial problems as a growing number of people chose to use private cars or the subway instead , with some bus companies going out of business . 
The adoption of a semi-public bus system with private operators is aimed at reviving private operators use . 
The Seoul authorities introduced reforms such as creating four types of buses , indicated by The Seoul authorities color , to serve different routes , including express buses -LRB- red -RRB- , trunk buses -LRB- blue -RRB- , branch buses -LRB- green -RRB- and neighborhood buses -LRB- yellow -RRB- . 
Bus-only lanes also were established . 
The government offered to cover the financial losses of bus companies in return for gaining the right to adjust bus routes . 
This put an end to the practice where a number of routes were monopolized by a small number of bus companies , causing inconvenience to passengers . 
The bus companies and the city government have adopted joint management of bus company revenues . 
6 . 
2 Scaling back greenbelts and upgrading urban living conditions 
Following the end of the financial crisis , the reckless development of `` semi-agricultural areas '' emerged as a political issue in the early 2000s . 
This underscored the need for an integrated approach to land management that would be conducted in an environment - friendly way . 
In February 2002 , the Act on the Basic Framework of National Land Management as well as the Territorial Planning and Utilization Act were passed to achieve this goal . 
Previously , urban planning was limited to urban planning zones . 
The new law required that all urban and rural districts -LRB- si and gun -RRB- should create basic urban management plans to cover all the land within all urban and rural districts -LRB- si and gun -RRB- jurisdiction . 
The zoning system was restructured . 
`` Semi - agricultural areas '' and `` semi-urban areas , '' which had been subject to reckless development , were integrated into the `` land management areas , '' which were subdivided into `` plan management areas , '' `` production management areas , '' and `` conservation management areas , '' based on land suitability assessments . 
It was decided that urban land development would be basically confined to `` plan management areas . '' 
Under the newly adopted Class-2 Planned Unit Development Zoning , even non-urban areas were subject to development and management planning , including surveys of roads , landscape and zoning size , in a way similar to urban area development plans . 
Approval for development projects was granted based on the availability of sufficient infrastructure and whether the project was in harmony with the project surroundings . 
In areas where it would be difficult to expand infrastructure facilities to serve development projects , the number and density of development projects would be limited . 
In newly developed areas , the developer would be made to bear the expense for the installation of infrastructure facilities , including those in adjacent areas . 
In addition , the land suitability assessment system would be used to determine whether a parcel of land should be developed or preserved based on a comprehensive review of a parcel of land physical , socioeconomic and environment factors . 
Most of the large-scale development projects that had been carried out since the early 1960s were for housing , with many being `` bedroom towns '' that lacked basic urban amenities . 
As a result , it was necessary to expand the concept of land development to one of full-scale urban development to correct this problem . 
The Urban Planning Act and the Land Readjustment Project Act were integrated with the Urban Development Act in January 2000 . 
This combined land development methods with urban development methods , while urban development criteria was applied to projects in both the public and private sectors on a uniform basis . 
In 2003 , work began to restore the Cheonggye-cheon -LRB- stream -RRB- in central Seoul , which had been covered with concrete for more than 40 years to support a road network . 
The project , which had been initiated by Lee Myung-bak , the then Seoul mayor , was completed in October 2005 . 
The elevated highway that passed over the stream was demolished . 
The project aimed to revive the downtown area , with plenty of recreation space along the stream ' banks , and The restoration project has largely succeeded in that goal . 
The restoration project has exerted considerable influence on local urban planning . 
The restoration project made people aware of the country 's cultural and historical resources and awakened policymakers to the need for the creation of public spaces . 
In response , other local administrations have undertaken similar water restoration projects , which have contributed to the improvement of urban environments nationwide . 
Areas of restricted development , or greenbelts , had been established between 1971 and 1997 to prevent urban sprawl and preserve the natural environment of cities . 
But the concept met with increasing criticism that the concept represented an excessive infringement on private property rights and steps were taken to abolish some greenbelts or relax restrictions on some greenbelts use in 1998 . 
The designation of greenbelts near small - and medium-sized cities , where there was little possibility of urban expansion or environmental damage , was cancelled . 
In the metropolitan areas of Seoul , Busan and Gwangju , the designation of greenbelts was partially readjusted based on environmental impact assessments and comprehensive urban development plans . 
As a result , 1,416 km 2 out of a total 5,397 km 2 in greenbelt space were cancelled . 
For greenbelts close to large cities , 314 km 2 out of 4,294 km 2 were removed . 
It can be said the greenbelts surrounding large cities still maintain large cities function of conserving the natural environment . 
But critics claim that critics have become less effective in preventing urban sprawl , which was one of their chief goals -LRB- particularly in the capital region -RRB- , and critics have hindered the orderly growth of large cities and reduced large cities productivities . 
6 . 
3 Renewing balanced regional development 
The issue of ensuring that the capital region and other areas could develop in a complementary manner to achieve balanced regional development has been a difficult one for many years . 
Various systems and policies set up in the past to solve the problem failed to bring about any noticeable success . 
The Roh Moo-hyun administration -LRB- 2003-2007 -RRB- announced a plan to move the central government 's administrative functions from Seoul to a provincial location , triggering heated controversy . 
Although the plan to establish a new administrative capital was ruled unconstitutional , the administration went ahead with a modified plan for what was officially termed the Multifunctional Administrative City -LRB- popularly known as Sejong City -RRB- , and began construction . 
The government also pushed ahead with The government Innovation Cities project , with the aim of achieving more equal distribution of the national wealth through the relocation of public institutions to the provinces . 
In June 2005 , the government announced the plan by selecting which state institutions were to be relocated . 
In April 2006 , the government unveiled a Basic Plan for the Development of Innovation Cities . 
In February 2007 , The government enacted the Special Act on the Construction of , and Provision of Support for , Innovation Cities and designated the areas . 
Work commenced in July 2007 . 
The relocation of the state institutions to the provinces is scheduled to be completed by 2012 . 
In addition , the government launched the Enterprise City Project with the goal to help provinces gain financial self-sufficiency , promote domestic investment by means of urban development projects using private capital , and revive local economies . 
The plan was made in response to a proposal by the Federation of Korean Industries -LRB- FKI -RRB- in October 2003 to encourage increased corporate investments and create jobs . 
In December 2004 , the Special Act on the Development of Enterprise Cities was promulgated . 
The Capital Region Readjustment Plan proposed by the Roh Moo-hyun administration focused on growth management , unlike existing plans that imposed regulations on activities that caused population growth in the capital region . 
The government announced a principle of developing the provinces first , followed by the planned management of the capital region . 
A partial easing of regulations were implemented , including raising the limit on the total amount of land that could be set aside for factory sites and nature conservation zones in the capital region . 
This included granting approval for the construction of a factory by LG Phillips -LRB- now known as LG Display -RRB- in Paju -LRB- 2003 -RRB- . 
The Lee Myung-bak administration , which took office in 2008 , noted that while the measures taken by the Roh administration were meant to curb the concentration of population and resources in the capital city , it achieved only partial success and failed to respond in a flexible manner to changes in conditions . 
The new government announced The new government intention to make adjustments to existing regulations affecting the capital region in order to make The new government a world-class metropolis that would enhance national competitiveness , while linking The new government to the policy of developing mega-economic regions outside the capital . 
The government in October 2008 set out The government in October 2008 plans for the capital region with methods to promote the more efficient use of land to increase national competitiveness , while maintaining the principle of developing the provinces first to be followed by the planned management of the capital region . 
In the short term , The government in October 2008 wants to remove excessive and unreasonable regulations within the existing policy framework , while creating jobs and increasing corporate investments . 
Over the medium to long term , The government in October 2008 wants to achieve the capital region 's global competitiveness through a fundamental improvement in the regulation-based management system , while adopting systematic management of the region to improve the quality of life and use of urban space . 
6 . 
4 Korea as a logistics hub for Northeast Asia 
On March 29 , 2001 , Asiana Airlines flight OZ 3423 flying from Bangkok landed at Incheon International Airport , becoming the first commercial flight to do so and bringing closer the vision of Incheon becoming a major hub airport for Northeast Asia . 
Incheon International Airport was built as a first-class facility that compares favorably with any existing airport in the world . 
Incheon International Airport features include the largest passenger terminal in Asia , state-of-the-art information and communications systems , and the airport expressway linking Yeongjong Island , where the airport is located , to Seoul . 
In the first phase , airport facilities were built to handle expected demand over the next decade . 
A second phase was completed in June 2008 . 
Despite steady growth in passenger traffic in the early days , the airport received only average consumer approval ratings due to the indifferent attitude of the workforce and cumbersome immigration procedures . 
The Incheon International Airport Corporation responded by adopting a customer-oriented management system and strove to find ways to improve cooperation among the parties involved in the airport 's operation , which number more than 550 agencies and businesses and more than 30,000 employees . 
As a result of these efforts , The Incheon International Airport Corporation was selected by the Airports Council International -LRB- ACI -RRB- as the best airport in the world for four consecutive years -LRB- 2006-2009 -RRB- . 
In addition , Incheon International Airport started posting net profits in 2004 , four years ahead of schedule . 
In terms of port operations , the country aims to become a logistics hub for Northeast Asia with the twin-hub port plan based on the container ports in Busan and Gwangyang . 
Busan New Port , for which construction began in 1995 , opened six berths in 2006 and 12 more in 2010 . 
It is scheduled to have 30 berths by 2015 . 
The Port of Gwangyang built The Port of Gwangyang container terminal , which has 16 berths , 12 of 16 berths , 12 of them able to handle 4,000 TEU-class ships and four berths for 2,000 TEU-class ships able to handle 4,000 TEU-class ships and four berths for 2,000 TEU-class ships . 
The port was opened in three phases between 1998 and 2007 . 
Eight additional berths for 4,000 TEU-class ships are planned to be built . 
The twin-hub ports are focusing on attracting trans-shipment business for cargo originating in the region , including the west coast of Japan , which will help to achieve Japan goal of becoming a mega-hub port for Northeast Asia and serve as the starting point for the Eurasian Railroad . 
In order to become a regional logistics hub , the country needs to develop adjacent large - scale logistics complexes that can cope with changes in global logistics networks , attract the logistics operations of multinational companies , and be able to operate logistics businesses to meet global standards . 
Turning port areas into free trade zones is a worldwide trend adopted by many developing countries . 
Joining this trend will help the country compete with ports in more advanced countries and put the country in an advantageous position to attract the logistics headquarters of multinational businesses and leading global logistics businesses . 
6 . 
5 Green growth 
In response to the public 's rising expectations for an improvement in the quality of life , the government is adopting more stringent measures on environment and health matters as well as the sustainable use and conservation of environmental resources , such as water . 
With the advancement in economic structure and the increasing global attention on environmental issues , the concepts of economic growth and environmental protection have become intertwined . 
The government , considering environmental and economic needs simultaneously , has concontrared on efforts to establish a management system for green growth , that is , the management of greenhouse gases , the recycling of resources , the development of environment-based industries and technology , and strengthening the ability to adapt to climate changes . 
The government enacted the Environmental Health Act in 2008 , which established a system for monitoring environmental pollutants and establishing environmental quality standards . 
The government has adopted measures to develop environment-friendly and pleasant urban environments , which is a departure from the passive attitude toward environmental management in the past , which mainly focused on green growth . 
The government has also pushed for environmental objectives to be included in urban planning , including developing urban environmental assessment indices , guidelines for biotope maps , and promoting eco-city projects . 
An air pollution management system was adopted to reduce sulfur oxide , nitrous oxide and dust , which are the main air pollutants in urban areas . 
In 2007 , the government adopted the emission trading system to encourage the voluntary participation of businesses in efforts to reduce greenhouse gases . 
The government is also promoting the commercialization and use of low-polluting vehicles , such as hybrid cars and buses powered by natural gas . 
The land planning system has been overhauled to take into greater account environmental factors . 
A preliminary environmental review concerning major development plans is an example of such efforts . 
In the area of water environment management , the project to restore four main rivers -LRB- Han-gang , Nakdong-gang , Geum-gang , Yeongsan - gang -RRB- is closely connected with green growth , going beyond the framework of traditional water quality management . 
Recent measures have also dealt with climate change and green growth initiatives . 
Work is underway to develop a greenhouse gas emissions coefficient , the compilation of relevant environmental statistics , providing support for the establishment of policies by local governments to deal with climate change , and creating more environment-friendly urban environments . 
Efforts are being made to develop green growth-related technologies and businesses , which will form the basis of the green growth movement , with the goal of expanding into overseas markets . 
7 . 
An assessment of Korea 's territorial policy 7 . 
1 Achievements 
7 . 
1.1 Dramatic changes in landscape 
Korea 's physical landscape has undergone a sea change in the last six decades . 
At present , the Republic of Korea is 100,032 km 2 , according to the latest published data by the government . 
the Republic of Korea has recorded a 5,803 km 2 increase in the Republic of Korea land size , a 6 percent expansion , since 1948 mainly due to land reclamation from the sea . 
The Korean population has increased 2.4-fold from 20 million in 1946 to 49 million by 2008 . 
The country 's population density ranks third in the world after Bangladesh and Taiwan , excluding mini-states like Singapore and Bahrain . 
The population of Seoul has undergone explosive growth in the same period , increasing by more than seven times from 1.5 million , or 7 percent of the entire population in 1946 , to 10 million , or 21 percent of the entire population , by 2008 . 
As for the capital region , 49 percent of the entire population lived in the area in 2008 , compared to 21 percent in 1949 . 
The country 's urbanization ratio has jumped from 17 percent in 1946 to 50 percent in 1970 and 90 percent by 2005 , meaning that nine of ten people live in urban areas . 
In contrast , the number of people living in rural areas has plummeted from 75 percent to 6 percent in the same period due to industrialization and urbanization . 
This has resulted in the existence of many `` hollow '' villages in rural areas . 
The Saemaul Movement , which started in 1979 , helped raise the average annual income of farm households by 12.5-fold from 356,000 won , or 79 percent of The Saemaul Movement , which started in 1979 , urban counterparts , in 1979 to as much as 4,465,000 won , or 103 percent of The Saemaul Movement , which started in 1979 , urban counterparts , by 1982 . 
In the same period , rural roads were expanded by 64,686 km , a total of 39,231 village community centers were built , and 258,000 farmhouses were renovated . 
The movement helped rural villages achieve a dramatic improvement in living standards , including the availability of better farming equipment , power supplies and modern housing . 
From the 1960s , the country adopted an export-oriented economic policy . 
In 1966 , the Guro Export Industrial Park was built in Seoul . 
Afterwards , large-sized industrial parks were concentrated in the southwestern part of the country . 
Smaller regional industrial parks , however , were established nationwide and later a series of industrial parks , known as techno parks or urban hi-tech industrial parks , were built . 
By the end of 2008 , there were a total of 742 industrial parks in the country , occupying 1,228 km 2 . 
A total of 1.4 million people were working at 48,871 businesses in the industrial complexes , which had a total production amounting to 665 trillion won a year . 
Up until the 1960s , the state of housing in both urban and rural areas was poor , with farmhouses , for example , having straw roofs . 
The current situation is far different . 
More than half of homes are modern apartments . 
The number of homes , which stood at 3.3 million in 1950 , increased 4.2-fold to 13.8 million by 2007 due to the government 's housing construction policy . 
The number of homes built annually jumped nine-fold from around 50,000 in 1950 to 460,000 by 2005 . 
As a result , the housing supply ratio , which fell from 82.4 percent in 1962 to 69.2 percent by 1987 due to the population increase and the trend toward nuclear families , rose again to surpass 100 percent in 2000 and 108 percent by 2007 . 
Many new cities were built , including Ulsan , Changwon , Banwol -LRB- Ansan -RRB- , Bundang , Ilsan , Pyeongchon , Sanbon , Jungdong and so on , as part of the process of industrialization and urbanization 
7 . 
1.2 National transportation networks 
At the time of liberation in 1945 , it took two to three days to travel from Seoul to the outlying reaches of the country . 
Sixty years later , the same journey now takes less than half a day thanks to the development of modern transportation and logistics systems . 
Most households now have Most households own cars and the country has an extensive network of expressways . 
The number of cars has increased rapidly from around 7,000 in 1945 to 14,703 in 1948 and 16.4 million by 2007 , with the car ownership ratio going from 2,881 people per car to 2.9 people per car as incomes rose and road conditions improved . 
The amount of roads has grown 4.3-fold from 24,031 km in 1945 to 103,019 km by 2008 . 
The percentage of paved roads has jumped from 0.03 percent to 98 percent in the same period . 
The opening of the Seoul-Incheon Expressway -LRB- 1968 -RRB- and the Seoul-Busan Expressway -LRB- 1970 -RRB- signaled the start of the expressway era . 
At present , the 3,368 km-long expressway network forms the transport arteries of the country . 
In 1945 , railroads were the most crucial means of transportation of both people and cargo . 
Prior to Korea 's division , the total distance of railroads came to 6,362 km . 
After the partition , the total length of railroads in South Korea stood at 2,642 km . 
the total length of railroads in South Korea has modestly increased since then by 28.7 percent to 3,399 km . 
In 1975 , the opening of the Seoul Station-Cheongryangri subway line in Seoul ushered in the era of mass transit systems . 
In 2002 , the high-speed KTX train started service between Seoul and Busan . 
The 300 km/hr train covers the Seoul-Busan route in less than 3 hours . 
As for the maritime industry , the ship Busan that returned from Qingdao , China on August 15 , 1945 , the day the country was liberated from colonial rule , was the only ocean-going vessel in the country at that time . 
In the early 1960s , the government pushed for the development of the maritime industry . 
By 2007 , the total tonnage of the country 's ocean - going ships was 18 million tons . 
As for ports , Busan Port became the country 's first to be equipped with a container wharf in 1978 . 
Busan Port continued to develop until becoming the world 's third largest port in terms of cargo handling capacity by 2000 . 
Recently , however , newly developed Chinese ports have pushed Busan Port back into the fifth place . 
Commercial aviation began in the colonial period . 
In 1946 , Korean National Airlines -LRB- KNA -RRB- was established and Korean National Airlines -LRB- KNA -RRB- started domestic flights in 1948 . 
In 1948 , Northwest Orient , the U.S. carrier , became the first airline to offer international flights from the country . 
In 1962 , Korean Air took over bankrupt KNA and was the country 's only commercial airline for 26 years . 
In 1988 , Asiana Airlines entered the market . 
Since 2005 , several small discount airlines have started operations . 
Korean airlines now rank tenth in the world in terms of the number of passengers and the volume of cargo several small discount airlines transport . 
In 1958 , Gimpo International Airport became the country 's main airport , replacing one in Yeouido in the middle of Seoul that had served that role since the colonial period . 
With the opening of Incheon International Airport in 2001 , Gimpo Airport now mainly serves domestic flights . 
Since Gimpo Airport opening , Incheon International Airport has joined the ranks of the world 's leading airports , ranking second in terms of the volume of international cargo handled and tenth in terms of international passenger traffic . 
Railroads played a central role in cargo transportation in the early years of independence . 
With the construction of five cargo depots , including those in Gunpo and Euiwang , in the 1990s , the country 's logistics sector underwent drastic changes . 
In the 2000s , the creation of a multi-modal sea and air transportation system offers complete services from origin to destination . 
In the 1960s , the convenience and route flexibility offered by buses caused the disappearance of streetcars from the streets of Seoul . 
Since 1974 , subways , along with buses , taxis and private cars , have played a significant role in transportation in the large cities . 
Recently , efforts have been made to improve sidewalks and bike paths as part of the `` Low Carbon and Green Growth '' campaign . 
7 . 
1.3 Environmental protection 
It was in the late 1960s , as the country was industrializing , that the government and public became interested in environmental issues , which initially focused on the issues of health and hygiene . 
The environment emerged as a top policy issue in the early 1970s , when waste and wastewater from urban and industrial areas was blamed as the main sources of pollution . 
Demands to protect the environment increased rapidly in the 1980s in response to frequent pollution accidents and a change in the public 's attitude toward the environment . 
In the 1990s , the Not-In-My-Back-Yard -LRB- NIMBY -RRB- phenomenon became prevalent . 
A series of environmental and economic policies were adopted to reduce the release of pollutants , along with systems designed to coordinate development with conservation efforts . 
In the 2000s , there were increasing public demands for a qualitative improvement in living standards . 
The government adopted a land environmental policy that required land development plans to be assessed for The government environmental impact , with the goal of preserving and protecting ecological systems and promoting green growth . 
The success in reforestation is one of South Korea 's most prominent achievements . 
In the 1970s , coal briquettes replaced wood as a fuel , thus reducing the demand for wood harvested from the forest . 
The tree volume per ha increased 17.5 times from 5.6 per ha in 1952 to 97.8 per ha by 2007 . 
It is particularly noteworthy that the per capita tree volume/ha ratio increased 7.4 times from 1.7 per ha to 12.9 per ha between 1952 and 2007 despite the rapid increase in population . 
One of the most serious environmental issues is global warming . 
The government is pushing a `` Low Carbon and Green Growth '' strategy to help solve this problem . 
Korea has also taken steps to protect the environment by reducing industrial pollution . 
Korea is taking part in global efforts to reduce greenhouse gases and promote green growth initiatives . 
7 . 
1.4 Expansion of maritime activities 
The county 's west and south coasts feature heavily indented and shallow coastlines , meaning that it is easy to reclaim land from the sea . 
As a result of a survey carried out in 1962 , a total of 71 areas -LRB- with an estimated size of 2,250 km 2 in reclaimable area , of which 1,650 km 2 was considered suitable for farmland -RRB- were selected . 
By the 1970s , based on the skills and experience acquired in the previous decade , large - scale reclamation projects were carried out to create industrial sites as well as farmland . 
7 By the 1990s , the country 's per capita GNI had reached 10,000 dollars and the government and public became more aware of the importance of tidal flats and coastal ecological systems . 
As a result , a more cautious approach toward reclamation projects was adopted . 
After liberation in 1945 , the country started the development of a deep-sea maritime fishing industry , beginning with small boats and later expanding to the use of ocean-going vessels . 
Korea gained great experience in maritime activities and sent a team to explore the Antarctic in 1985 and then built the Sejong Science Base there in 1988 . 
The country embarked on full-scale international maritime development in the 1990s and has extended the country 's activities worldwide . 
The government enacted the Maritime Pollution Prevention Act in 1977 after The government participated in the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships . 
The chemical oxygen demand -LRB- COD -RRB- index of the country 's coastal areas rose along with economic growth , but dropped to 1.40 by 2006 from a peak of 1.89 in 1994 . 
The country 's jurisdiction over maritime territories extends 12 nautical miles from the shoreline as set under the Article 3 of the Constitution , and Article 1 and Article 3 of the Territorial Sea Act . 
The base in the Antarctic is also recognized as part of Korea 's maritime territory . 
7 . 
2 Unresolved issues 
7 . 
2.1 Stabilizing real estate prices 
As mentioned at the beginning of this chapter , one important policy goal of the Korean government has been the stabilization of real estate prices . 
Various government projects to build transportation networks , industrial parks and housing rapidly raised the land prices in targeted areas . 
The concentration of populations in large cities resulted in skyrocketing prices for residential and commercial properties . 
Property speculation became rampant . 
Speculators , often from the well-to-do segment of the population , were blamed by the public for escalating real estate prices . 
Rising housing prices were of particular concern . 
In response to the perceived increase in social inequality , the government introduced many measures to penalize speculative trading and curb windfall gains . 
For example , heavy taxes were levied on the capital gains from housing sales ; home ownership was in principle allowed only to the actual residents of the home ; and the renovation of high-rise apartments to create more units was restricted as the renovation of high-rise apartments to create more units would result in capital gains for the existing owners . 
But these measures had an adverse impact on housing supply and hindered the smooth functioning of the property market . 
More often than not , the government relaxed the regulations during recessions to boost the construction sector and stimulate the economy , and then tightened them again when worries about over-heating and speculation increased . 
Between the late 1960s and early 2008 , the government announced a total of sixty-one measures , alternating between stimulus and stabilization packages . 
8 These short-term , `` stop-go '' policies increased uncertainties in the market and severely damaged the credibility of the government , fueling further speculation . 
One notable innovation was the concept of `` public stewardship toward land policy '' adopted in the late 1980s . 
The government placed limits on the ownership of housing lots , imposed a tax on excessive profits earned from land sales , and introduced development charges . 
These policies were , however , ruled unconstitutional and abandoned in the 1990s . 
A more successful strategy to stabilize housing prices was the large-scale housing construction project in the late 1980s . 
A target was set to supply 2 million units of housing in 1989-1992 . 
The project was completed with the construction of 2.14 million houses -LRB- 33 percent of the total housing stock of 6.45 million as of 1987 -RRB- by August 1991 , ahead of schedule . 
The housing supply ratio jumped from 69.2 percent in 1987 to 76.0 percent in 1992 , and continued to rise to reach 93.3 percent in 1999 . 
Between January 1991 and January 1996 , the price index of apartment sales declined by 1.8 percent per year across the country and by 2.3 percent in Seoul -LRB- Table 5-9 -RRB- . 
Entering the 2000s , housing prices began to rise again as the market recovered from the shock of the Asian financial crisis . 
The Roh Moo-hyun administration adopted measures on 13 separate occasions to curb housing speculation and a surge in prices , including the Real Estate Price Stabilization Measure announced in May 2003 . 
Other measures included the requirement that the price of a home sale be reported to the authorities ; the introduction of a comprehensive property tax with high rates ; and more stringent rules on home loans , such as the loan-to-value ratio -LRB- LTV -RRB- and debt-to-income ratio -LRB- DTI -RRB- loan assessments . 
Many believe that these measures to control demand , contrary to Many stated goals , played a role in increasing housing prices in 2006 and 2007 as Many reduced housing supply . 
Part of the measures were recognized for contributing to increased transparency in the housing market and promoting stability in the financial market , but a larger part signaled a departure from the market-based approach of the Kim Young-sam administration , which gave the private sector a leading role in housing supply . 
At issue is the conceptual and practical difficulty of separating `` speculation '' from `` genuine investment , '' both of which are made in response to an expected rise in prices that increases the inflow of money into the sector and stimulates an increase in supply . 
Past experience indicates that efforts to curb speculative demand can destabilize the housing market further and that the priority should be given to increasing housing supply , especially in regions suffering shortages -LRB- Man Cho , 2010 -RRB- . 
7 . 
2.2 Promoting balanced regional growth 
From the early years , the Korean government has highlighted balanced regional development as one of its major policy goals . 
The government has taken two approaches to achieve this . 
One is curbing the concentration of population and economic activities in the capital region . 
The other is promoting equal opportunities in terms of income , jobs and education for all regions . 
These two approaches are not necessarily compatible with each other . 
For instance , moving government offices and other public agencies from the capital region to Chungcheong will contribute to reducing the concentration of activities in the capital region , but may widen the gap between Chungcheong and , say , Jeolla . 
Indeed , the growth of GRDP and per capita GRDP since 1985 have been faster in Chungcheong than in Jeolla -LRB- Table 5-10 -RRB- . 
The population concentration in Seoul drew increasing attention from policymakers in the 1960s . 
The Park Chung-hee administration tried to curb population growth in the capital region partly for military and national security reasons . 
In the 1970s , laws , plans and policy measures for population control in the capital region were systematized , including those proposed by the presidential office in 1972 , the Economic Planning Board in 1973 , and the Seoul City Government in 1975 . 
Measures included the designation of greenbelts to prevent Seoul 's urban expansion ; the imposition of taxes ; restrictions on the number of universities and students in the capital region ; the relocation of government institutions to the provinces ; and the transfer of power from the central government to local governments . 
Targets were set to contain the population to under 6.3 million in Seoul and 11.0 million in the capital region by 1981 , when the First Comprehensive Territorial Development Plan would be completed . 
The actual population numbers exceeded the targets , with Seoul 's population reaching 8.7 million in 1981 and that of the capital region 14.8 million -LRB- Table 5-11 -RRB- . 
The failure can be attributed to an excessively ambitious plan that was not backed by sufficient means to enforce The failure . 
The Second Comprehensive Territorial Development Plan -LRB- 1982-1991 -RRB- introduced the concept of `` regional life zones '' and promoted `` regional growth centers '' as part of the push for decentralization . 
The plan divided the entire country into 28 life zones , of which five were metropolitan life zones , seventeen were urban life zones and six were rural life zones . 
The Plan also designated 15 cities as growth centers to lead the development of adjacent backward areas . 
Among 15 cities as growth centers , Daejeon , Gwangju and Daegu were selected as the primary growth centers able to absorb the population moving to Seoul and Busan and thus play a critical role comparable to that of Seoul . 
Twelve regional cities , which served as provincial capitals or business centers with high growth potential , were selected as secondary growth centers . 
The population in the primary growth centers grew by 3.0 percent between 1980 and 1990 and that for the secondary growth centers by 1.5 percent , far short of the target of 4.8 percent and 4.4 percent , respectively . 
The higher population growth rates in the primary centers compared to that for the secondary centers confirm that a policy to promote the development of small regional cities may not be effective in reversing the population concentration in the capital region and encouraging balanced regional development . 
Another attempt to discourage the migration from rural areas was made with the `` rural settlement area development program , '' which would focus on the comprehensive development of entire rural areas , including farm villages and towns . 
The program , however , hardly prevented a decrease in rural population nor improved the income or living standards of rural households . 
Starting in 1986 , rural industrial parks were created across the country to support projects designed to help rural households earn extra income from jobs other than farming . 
The establishment of the parks reached a peak between 1987 and 1990 , but started declining afterwards . 
During and after the 1997 financial crisis , many businesses in the rural industrial parks were closed and the parks were criticized as acting as temporary shelters for marginal businesses . 
The interest in balanced regional development declined in the 1990s as government policies for the development of the capital region and other areas focused on measures to increase the nation 's economic competitiveness in response to globalization . 
The stance was reversed again in the 2000s by the Roh Moo-hyun administration , which pushed ahead with balanced regional development with such measures as the relocation of government and public institutions outside the capital region . 
The Roh 's administration also strengthened regulations to curb the expansion of the capital region . 
But in the face of intensifying global competition between firms , the Roh Moo-hyun administration , which pushed ahead with balanced regional development with such measures as the relocation of government and public institutions outside the capital region had to bow to demands for deregulation in some cases , approving the construction of LG Phillips Factory in Paju , near Seoul -LRB- 2003 -RRB- ; relaxing the restrictions on the construction of new factories or expansion of existing factories for 14 types of high-tech businesses located within `` growth management zones '' -LRB- 2004 -RRB- ; giving approval to the chaebol for the construction or expansion of facilities for eight types of high-tech businesses -LRB- 2005 -RRB- ; expanding development areas in `` nature conservation zones '' -LRB- 2006 -RRB- ; and approving the expansion of factories for businesses engaged in three sectors in the capital region -LRB- 2007 -RRB- . 
In short , government efforts to date to check the growth of the capital region or to promote regional development have not been very successful . 
government efforts to date to check the growth of the capital region or to promote regional development also lacked consistency over time . 
For example , regulations governing business categories allowed to operate in the capital region have been eased , particularly for high-tech companies . 
9 Such ad hoc deregulation , however , has led to unorganized territorial development and damaged the environment . 
Some claim that policies on the capital region need a fundamental reorientation to better protect the environment on the one hand and to properly accommodate economic realities on the other -LRB- Jung Jay Joh , 2002 ; Yong-woong Kim and Mi-sook Cha 2009 -RRB- . 
In particular , attention should be given to the increasingly important role of big cities in the era of globalization and knowledge-based economies -LRB- Gill and Kharas , 2007 -RRB- . 
It is also suggested that development policies for the areas outside the capital region be reformulated . 
Under the current economic structure , which depends on the service sector for 70 percent of the areas outside the capital region production and 60 percent of the areas outside the capital region employment , it is unrealistic to expect that a large-scale physical investment to promote the manufacturing sector in non-capital areas would generate economic growth there . 
Rather , the emphasis needs to be placed on fostering the service sector in major regional cities and building `` soft '' infrastructure , i.e. , the capability of regional communities to adapt and innovate regional communities -LRB- Jong-il Kim , 2008 ; Youngsun Koh , 2008 -RRB- . 
In the meantime , per capita GRDP has grown rapidly in the areas outside the capital region -LRB- Table 5-10 -RRB- . 
Some regions , notably Chungcheong and Gyeongsang , have higher per capita GRDP than the capital region . 
With the wide-spread increase in economic activities , the gap in economic and living conditions between the capital region and other areas has narrowed significantly over the decades -LRB- Table 5-13 -RRB- . 
A critical question is how to sustain the dynamism of the Korean economy and facilitate a flexible reallocation of resources between regions . 
7 . 
2.3 Other restrictions on land use 
The government places some restrictions on the use of land for various reasons , for example to promote orderly territorial development , protect the environment , limit the population concentration in the cities , and stabilize real estate prices . 
Restrictions have taken various forms in Korea . 
Among Restrictions are the zoning system and greenbelts . 
All plots of land in Korea are subject to the zoning system , which has provided clear and consistent guidelines for All plots of land in Korea use . 
But the zoning system has also received many criticisms . 
First of all , the zoning system can not accommodate the diversity of economic and social activities because the zoning system classifies all plots of land into a small number of zone-types and applies a uniform regulation to all plots of land . 
This inflexibility becomes particularly disruptive as the government earmarks specific plots of land for specific purposes well in advance of specific purposes development . 
In addition , the complicated regulations imposed on each type stifle the innovative use of land by the private sector . 
Recently , efforts are being made to increase the flexibility of the system , but it is still too soon to judge efforts success . 
Another important restriction on land use was imposed by the greenbelt system introduced in 1971 . 
As urbanization occurred rapidly during the 1960s , the cities began to expand in a disorderly fashion . 
In order to preserve the natural environment around the cities and to secure a healthy living environment for urban citizens , the Urban Planning Act was enacted , which designated Seoul , five metropolitan cities , 28 urban districts -LRB- si -RRB- and 36 rural districts -LRB- gun -RRB- as greenbelts between 1971 and 1977 . 
Initially , greenbelts were to cover 5,397 km 2 -LRB- 5.4 percent of the country -RRB- but the current area is 3,980 km 2 because of the adjustment made in 1998 . 
The greenbelt system has made a great contribution to protecting the environment and provided places for city dwellers to enjoy nature . 
At the same time , The greenbelt system has been criticized for infringing on the property rights of owners , hindering the efficient use of land , and hampering the competitiveness of large cities . 
An appropriate balance is needed between the conflicting roles of the greenbelts . 
8 . 
Conclusion 
The three central themes in Korea 's territorial policy have been -LRB- 1 -RRB- supplying physical infrastructure for economic growth , -LRB- 2 -RRB- stabilizing real estate prices , and -LRB- 3 -RRB- promoting balanced regional growth . 
The first of these goals has met with tremendous success thanks to heavy government investment . 
The number of industrial parks rose from nothing in the early 1960s to 742 in 2008 . 
Housing units , which stood at 3.3 million in 1950 , increased four-fold to 14 million , and the housing supply ratio reached 110 percent in 2008 . 
The amount of roads grew 4.3 - fold from 24,031 km in 1945 to 103,019 km in 2008 . 
The Incheon International Airport , which opened in 2001 , has joined the top ranks of the world 's leading airports . 
Korea succeeded in the reforestation of Korea mountains within a couple of decades . 
Korea sent a team to explore the Antarctic in 1985 and then built the Sejong Science Base there in 1988 . 
These amazing achievements reflect the success of the Korean model of territorial development , which has several distinctive features , including the partnership between the government and private sectors , forward-looking leadership , the close interaction between economic growth and territorial development , and the active participation of the Korean people -LRB- Yang-ho Park et al. , 2010 -RRB- . 
On the other hand , the Korean government has been less successful in the last two goals . 
To curb the escalation of housing prices and penalize property speculation , the government employed various measures , including levying heavy taxes on capital gains from real estate sales , restricting home ownership to those only actually living in the homes , and restricting the renovation of high-rise apartments . 
But these measures were often relaxed during downturns to boost the construction sector and stimulate the economy and then tightened again during economic recoveries . 
Such short-term , `` stop - go '' policies damaged the credibility of the government and fueled further speculation . 
More importantly , the measures to discourage speculative demand had an adverse impact on housing supply and accelerated the price hikes . 
More successful were the measures to increase the housing supply , such as the one adopted at the turn of the 1990s . 
The Korean government also made recurrent efforts to promote balanced regional growth by trying to curb the concentration of population and economic activities in the capital region and reducing the gap in income , jobs , education and other opportunities among different areas . 
Despite these efforts , the population in the capital region continued to rise , as the benefits offered to workers , firms and consumers by large markets overwhelmed policy actions . 
In the 1990s and 2000s , the globalization of the Korean economy further narrowed the government 's room for maneuver . 
In the meantime , the economic and social conditions of the areas outside the capital region have improved . 
The per capita GRDP of some regions now exceed that of the capital region . 
A higher level of GRDP does not necessarily mean a higher level of household income or welfare , but A higher level of GRDP does indicate that economic activities have indeed increased in these areas . 
These achievements are attributable mainly to the flexible reallocation of resources from less to more productive regions . 
The future efforts should be directed at maintaining such flexibility across the country and building `` soft '' infrastructure in regional communities . 
1 . 
Introduction 
Korea 's economic growth in the past was accompanied not only by an increase in average per capita income but also broad-based social development . 
Educational opportunities expanded rapidly , with the enrollment rate in elementary school exceeding 90 percent by 1970 . 
Job opportunities also expanded significantly , as the unemployment rate plunged from 8 percent in the early 1960s to less than 3 percent in the mid-1990s , while the employment rate rose from 50 to 60 percent . 
During the high-growth period -LRB- from the 1960s to 1980s -RRB- , Korea 's income disparity narrowed and was one of the lowest in the world despite the inadequate coverage of the social security system . 
Women 's participation in education and the labor market also increased markedly . 
These favorable developments are attributable to many factors , including the explosive economic growth and the rapid creation of jobs ; the active promotion of mass education by the government ; and the labor market that has functioned smoothly in most part . 
From the early 1990s , however , income inequality has been increasing while economic growth has been slowing . 
Increasing income inequality is shared phenomenon among advanced countries as advanced countries increasing volume of trade with low-wage countries and the increasing importance of skill in a knowledge-based economy place low-wage countries low-skilled workers at a greater disadvantage . 
In addition , the rising proportions of the elderly , single-parent families and one-person households tend to increase poverty levels . 
Adding to the problem are widening productivity gaps between manufacturing and services , between heavy and chemical industries -LRB- HCIs -RRB- and light industries , and between large and small businesses . 
In the meantime , the employment rate ceased to rise in the early 2000s and now remains at around 60 percent . 
The quality of education is found wanting at all levels of schooling , as is the effectiveness of the social security system . 
A critical question is how to maintain the economic and social dynamism that characterized Korea up to now . 
Efforts should continue to promote economic growth and expand job opportunities on the one hand , and to strengthen social policies on the other . 
In particular , the education system needs to play a greater role in supplying high-quality human capital and helping socially disadvantaged groups to move upward . 
The labor market should be made more flexible and participation by young and low-skilled workers encouraged . 
The social insurance programs should expand The social insurance programs coverage to workers on the margins of the labor market . 
The following sections describe the development of social policies in the areas of population , education , the labor market , welfare , health care and women , and discuss current challenges and policy responses . 
The last section concludes the chapter . 
2 . 
Demographic changes 2 . 
1 Overview 
The Korean population grew from 20 million to 49 million between 1949 and 2009 . 
The population growth was particularly strong in the early years , but slowed with the falling fertility rate -LRB- Figure 6-1 -RRB- . 
In 2009 , the population growth rate was 0.3 percent and the fertility rate 1.15 children per woman . 
The current fertility rate is well below the replacement level of 2.1 and is one of the lowest in the world . 
If the trend continues , the population is expected to shrink starting in 2019 . 
With the improvement in nutrition and health care , the life expectancy at birth increased from 52.4 years to 80.1 years between 1960 and 2008 . 
The increasing life expectancy coupled with the falling fertility rate has led to a dramatic change in the age structure -LRB- Figure 6-2 -RRB- . 
The share of the elderly -LRB- 65 years and over -RRB- exceeded 10 percent in 2008 , and is set to reach one of the highest levels in the world by 2050 -LRB- Figure 6-3 -RRB- . 
Governments often try to steer the population toward an `` optimal '' size in the belief that the population has an important influence on economic growth , living conditions and the environment . 
The Korean government employed various measures to control population growth during the early stage of industrialization , but sharply reversed course in the mid-1990s due to the steep fall in the fertility rate . 
The next subsection discusses the development of population policy in the past six decades . 
2 . 
2 Demographic history 2 . 
2.1 Pre-liberation period 
Population growth before the Japanese annexation of Korea in 1910 was characterized by high birth and death rates . 
With the spread of modern medical services during Japanese colonial rule from 1910 to 1945 , the crude birth rate rose from 3.8 percent to 4.2-4.5 percent . 
In this period , many people left rural areas and migrated to either Manchuria or Japan for better economic opportunities . 
The child population grew whereas the working - age population declined and the senior population stagnated . 
Consequently , the population dependency ratio increased from 77 percent in 1925 to 89 percent in 1944 . 
2 . 
2.2 Period of turmoil : 1945-1960 
At the time of independence , there were an estimated 16 million people living in South Korea . 
Up to 1960 , the population grew in spite of the war and economic difficulties . 
One reason was the large number of Korean immigrants . 
Between 1945 and 1949 , 2.1-2.5 million people came to South Korea from Japan , Manchuria and North Korea , which accounted for 10-12 percent of the entire population in 1949 . 
The population grew by a record annual rate of 6.1 percent between 1945 and 1950 . 
Death rates during the Korean War rose sharply , with an estimated 1.68 million dying between 1950 and 1953 . 
The crude death rate between 1950 and 1955 was 32 per 1,000 people . 
During the war , 300,000 South Koreans were absorbed by the North and 650,000 North Korean refugees fled to the South , resulting in a net influx of 350,000 to the South -LRB- Tae-hwan Kwon and Doo-seop Kim , 2002 -RRB- . 
In 1955-1960 , the `` baby boom '' led to an annual population growth rate of 3.1 percent , which , excluding immigration , is the highest rate in Korea 's demographic history . 
Furthermore , most of the returning Koreans decided to settle in urban areas rather than go back to most of the returning Koreans rural hometowns . 
Most of most of the returning Koreans went to Seoul or cities in Seoul adjacent provinces -LRB- Gyeonggi or Gangwon -RRB- , which produced rapid urbanization in the central region of Korea.This caused the government to take population control seriously . 
2 . 
2.3 Precipitous decline in fertility : 1960-1985 
The early 1960s marked a crucial turning point in Korea 's demographic history . 
Rising birth rates and falling death rates created an economic challenge , along with a massive migration from rural to urban areas . 
Fearing that overpopulation would undermine economic growth , the government launched a family planning program , which included the distribution of free birth control devices and an incentive-based voluntary sterilization program . 
The government also legalized abortion in 1973 . 
This contributed to the rapid decline of fertility rates from the high of 4.5 in the early 1970s to 1.7 in 1985 . 
2 . 
2.4 Stagnant population growth since 1985 
In a sharp contrast to the 2.0 percent annual growth in 1960-1985 , the population grew by 0.9 percent in 1985-2000 . 
The fertility rate stopped falling and stayed at 1.4-1.7 children per woman . 
In 2000-2009 , however , the fertility rate plunged again to 1.1-1.2 and the population growth rate fell to 0.4 percent . 
With the birth rate below the population replacement level of 2.1 children per woman , the government 's population control policy was destined to end . 
Regulations and incentives to discourage births were largely abolished . 
The government officially ended the government 's population control policy in 1996 . 
In a complete reversal from the earlier policies , the government 's began to actively promote births in the 2000s . 
2 . 
3 Assessment and future challenges 
Up to now , there is no sign that the government effort to return the fertility rate to the replacement level is bearing fruit . 
It is not easy to raise the fertility rate as it is influenced by a host of factors , including women 's willingness to participate in labor market , the compatibility between work and family life for mothers , the cost of the care and education of children , and the social acceptance of out-of-wedlock births . 
More recently , a growing number of foreigners from less developed countries are migrating to Korea -LRB- Figure 6-4 -RRB- . 
The influx of foreign workers into Korea began in the late 1980s when the country was suffering from a serious manpower shortage . 
There has also been growth in international marriages , with women from less developed countries , such as Vietnam , marrying Korean men . 
The government has undertaken various efforts to minimize the difficulties experienced by these foreign wives but the efforts are generally found half-hearted and ineffective . 
A more serious effort is called for to integrate foreign immigrants into the Korean society . 
3 . 
Education system 
3 . 
1 Overview 
Education rapidly expanded in Korea after the liberation in 1945 . 
The number of elementary school students increased from 2-3 million in the 1950s to 5-6 million in the 1970s -LRB- Figure 6-5 -RRB- , with The number of elementary school students enrollment rate exceeding 90 percent in 1970 -LRB- Figure 6-6 -RRB- . 
Similar gains were made in middle and high schools and tertiary education . 
As a result , the literacy rate rose from a mere 22 percent in 1945 to virtually 100 percent now . 
The portion of the population with tertiary education increased rapidly and is now the highest among the OECD countries -LRB- Figure 6-7 -RRB- . 
The successful expansion of education has been a key factor in Korea 's industrialization and democratization during the last six decades . 
Without it , the `` Miracle on the Han '' would have been impossible . 
Education affects economic development both directly and indirectly . 
Directly , education creates human resources and accelerates technological progress . 
Indirectly , education contributes to institution building and social development . 
Furthermore , education improves social mobility when access to education is guaranteed to all regardless of income levels . 
The rapid expansion of education was possible due to both cultural factors and timely government policies . 
Korea has had a long tradition of putting the highest priority on education . 
The government also strove to expand education , starting from the primary level and then moving upward to higher education . 
Just one year after the Korean War ended , the Korean government implemented a six - year plan -LRB- 1954-1959 -RRB- for achieving compulsory primary education . 
The government made consistent efforts to expand the supply of teachers and classrooms -LRB- Figure 6-8 -RRB- . 
In 1959 , the advancement rate in primary education reached 96 percent -LRB- Figure 6-9 -RRB- . 
With the expansion of education taking place in sequence , starting from primary education and then working the expansion of education way up to secondary education and finally tertiary education , the expansion of education neatly matched the stages of Korea 's industrial development . 
The primary education system first provided workers suitable for the labor-intensive industries of the 1960s . 
The development of the secondary education system contributed to the growth of capital-intensive industries in the 1970s and 1980s , while the expansion of tertiary education in the 1990s laid the basis for the knowledge-based economy . 
This is being followed now by discussions about expanding and improving Ph.D. programs in Korea . 
Together with quantity , the quality of education improved slowly but steadily . 
Korean students now rank among the top academic performers in international test score comparisons . 
In the OECD 's Programme for International Student Assessment -LRB- PISA -RRB- conducted in 2003 , Korean students aged 15 ranked among the top four in four different assessment areas ; math , reading , science and problem solving . 
In the 2006 PISA , Korea ranked fourth in math and first in reading , although it fell to the 11th place in science . 
In the Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study -LRB- TIMSS -RRB- of 2003 , Korea ranked second overall , with a second place in mathematics and a third place in science . 
In the rest of this section , we document the development of the Korean education system and summarize the Korean education system key characteristics , evaluate the Korean education system , and review future challenges . 
3 . 
2 Development of Korean education 
The Korean education system has evolved through four different stages ; organizing the education infrastructure -LRB- 1945-1959 -RRB- , supporting industrialization -LRB- 1960-1979 -RRB- , education reforms -LRB- 1980-1999 -RRB- , and globalizing the education system -LRB- 2000-present -RRB- . 
3 . 
2.1 Organizing the education infrastructure -LRB- 1945-1959 -RRB- 
The Basic Education Act was promulgated in 1949 , which established an education structure consisting of one or two years of pre-school education , six years of elementary school , three years of middle school and three years of high school , followed by four years of tertiary education and at least one year of graduate school . 
The system was based on the local autonomy of educational districts similar to the U.S. school system , reflecting ideas that had been brought to Korea by the U.S. military government following liberation . 
Primary education was made compulsory , but the Korean War delayed the attainment of this goal . 
The Ministry of Education launched a six-year program of compulsory enrollment in 1954 , and the advancement rate to primary education rose to 96 percent by 1959 . 
Education spending increased and new classrooms were built . 
The government also created a legal and institutional framework for improving the quality of higher education in the late 1950s . 
The eradication of illiteracy made great strides under a five-year plan adopted by the Ministry of Education , the Ministry of Domestic Affairs , and the Ministry of Health and Welfare . 
The illiteracy rate fell dramatically from 78.2 percent in 1948 to 4.1 percent in 1958 . 
3 . 
2.2 Supporting industrialization -LRB- 1960-1979 -RRB- 
Dramatic increases in the number of primary and secondary school students required a large-scale investment in school facilities . 
School facilities were expanded under the first two Five-Year Economic Development Plans in the 1960s . 
Targets for building schools were exceeded and investment doubled , and the serious shortage of classrooms was gradually resolved . 
By 1971 , the system of teaching students in two shifts a day was abolished nationwide , except for lower-grade students in primary schools . 
A large number of private schools were established to meet the strong demand for education in the 1970s . 
The government decided to end the entrance examination to middle school , first in Seoul in 1969 and then in the rest of the country in 1971 , in order to eliminate the burden placed on elementary school students in preparing for the entrance examination . 
The resulting rise in the number of middle school students led to a corresponding increase in the number of students attending high schools . 
But then the competition to enter a select group of prestigious high schools intensified , and led the government to decide in March 1973 to introduce the `` high school equalization policy , '' which assigned middle school graduates to high schools through a lottery . 
This system was first applied to high schools in Seoul and Busan in 1974 and then gradually introduced in other regions . 
This had the added benefit of encouraging more middle school students to attend high schools . 
Vocational training programs at the high school level were started to produce the skilled manpower needed for industrialization . 
Higher education also received greater attention as industrialization required a large number of students trained in science and engineering . 
Rapid economic development in the 1960s prompted the government for the first time to prepare a plan for higher education in line with The government economic development agenda . 
The objectives of higher education changed from creating elites to developing systemically a broad range of talents needed to support economic growth . 
Starting in 1968 , the government successfully managed to produce more students majoring in science than in liberal arts by imposing student quotas on universities . 
The government established a plan to restructure the universities and passed the Private School Act in 1963 to address quality degradation resulting from the sudden surge in the number of university students . 
The plan and the law were later modified to become less restrictive , but The plan and the law were the first instruments used by the government to tighten The government control over universities . 
3 . 
2.3 Education reform -LRB- 1980-1999 -RRB- 
The high school equalization policy and the increase in the number of schools eased the competition for high-school entrance , but at the same time The high school equalization policy and the increase in the number of schools intensified the competition for university entrance . 
During the late 1970s , private tutoring and spending additional years after high-school graduation preparing for the university entrance examination became very common and began to be recognized as a serious social problem . 
In response , extreme measures were taken in 1980 to curb private tutoring . 
The government outlawed private tutoring and abolished admission examinations for individual universities and instead forced individual universities to select students based on the national examination administered by the government . 
It increased the quota for freshman while leaving unchanged the quota for graduating students , in order to make it easier for high school graduates to enter universities but more difficult for university students to graduate . 
Despite the government 's efforts , educational reform remained an important social issue . 
In the mid-1980s , the Education Reform Council was set up for the first time as a government body . 
In the early 1990s , the Commission on Education Reform was established . 
The Commission issued policy proposals on May 31 , 1995 , which were then referred as the 5.31 Education Reforms . 
The basic premise of the 5.31 Reforms was that Korea needed to restructure the entire education system in preparation for a knowledge-based society . 
The goal was to create an open learning society , or Edutopia . 
There were 48 different objectives outlined in the reform plan , including administrative deregulation , decentralization of the school system , curriculum reform , an increase in government education spending to 5 percent of GDP , and the use of information and communication technology -LRB- ICT -RRB- in schools . 
One of the important changes was giving communities more say in operating local schools by setting up an advisory council in each school with the participation of parents , teachers and the local government . 
The creation of autonomous schools was also proposed , to which greater autonomy was allowed in terms of student selection and curriculum choice than in other schools . 
The curriculum reforms focused on fostering the talents , aptitudes and creativity of students to prepare students for a globalized and knowledge-based economy . 
In the mid-1990s , requirements for the establishment of universities or colleges were eased . 
As a result , many low-quality private colleges were newly established in the areas outside the capital region where land prices were lower and development regulations were weaker . 
Although the 5.31 Reforms has expanded accessibility to higher education , concerns were raised about the quality of some of these higher education institutions . 
3 . 
2.4 Adjusting to a demand-centered education system -LRB- 2000 to the present -RRB- 
Education in Korea since the start of the 21st century has focused on the development of students who can excel in the globalized economy . 
Given that the quantitative expansion of education has been accomplished , the improvement in educational quality becomes the more important mission , which needs education reform in schools and universities that enables schools and universities to better meet the demand of students , parents and companies . 
Three principles were emphasized for this goal － autonomy , competition and accountability . 
The 5.31 Reforms purported to achieve the same goal with The 5.31 Reforms focus on school autonomy , but the decentralization of the school system fell short of expectations . 
The Lee Myung-bak administration in 2009 sought to revive these efforts with an education liberalization plan , which would give schools more power to choose schools more own curriculum and teachers . 
This would result in a competitive education system populated by a number of diverse and unique schools . 
Lifelong education is also receiving renewed interest in the 2000s . 
The Lifelong Education Act was introduced in 2000 to promote initiatives in this area . 
The Lifelong Learning Agency was established in 2008 . 
The 2000s also witnessed many other developments . 
The Basic Human Resources Development Act was enacted in 2002 . 
Tuition-free education up through middle school was started in 2003 . 
Reform measures to improve the quality of higher education were implemented , including the `` Brain Korea 21 '' in 1999 , the University Structural Reform Initiative -LRB- 2004-2009 -RRB- , 6 the introduction of a professional graduate school system -LRB- 2007 -RRB- , the New University for Regional Innovation Initiative , or NURI -LRB- 2005-2009 -RRB- , and measures to enhance cooperation between industry and academia . 
The Lee administration adopted the High School Diversification 300 
Project , which would allow middle school graduates to choose among various types of high school according to aptitude and ability . 
The government is also undertaking a three-stage plan to allow universities more autonomy in universities more operation such as student selection . 
Meanwhile , the use of ICT has been increasing in the education system . 
The National Education Information System , or NEIS , was introduced in 2003 to keep records on every teacher and student on a Linux-style platform although Linux-style implementation nearly touched off a nationwide strike by the Teacher 's Union . 
As for tertiary education , the University Information Disclosure System was recently implemented for students and parents to have access to selected information on all universities and colleges nationwide via the internet , which would facilitate demand-centered restructuring of higher education . 
3 . 
3 Key characteristics of the Korean education system 
The key characteristics of the Korean education system can be summarized as follows . 
First , Korea achieved a rapid expansion of education based on a sequence of first focusing on primary education , then secondary education , and finally tertiary education , in line with Korea 's economic and social development . 
The elementary education expanded rapidly in the late 1950s and achieved the universal education in the early 1960s when Korea embarked on industrialization . 
The enrollment rate of middle school students jumped in the 1970s and exceeded 95 percent in the early 1980s , while that of high school students surged in the 1970s and the 1980s to surpass 95 percent by the early 1990s . 
Finally , tertiary education expanded rapidly in the early 1980s and the mid-1990s . 
The fact that 82 percent of Korean high school graduates went on to university in 2009 shows that Koreans have achieved a nearly universal access to higher education . 
Second , the enrollment rate in Korea has been very high by international standards . 
Taejong Kim and Young Lee -LRB- 2007 -RRB- and Young Lee -LRB- 2010 -RRB- ran a cross-country regression of enrollment rates on -LRB- log of -RRB- GDP per capita and Taejong Kim and Young Lee -LRB- 2007 -RRB- and Young Lee -LRB- 2010 -RRB- squared term . 
Taejong Kim and Young Lee -LRB- 2007 -RRB- and Young Lee -LRB- 2010 -RRB- found the enrollment rate for primary education in Korea in the early 1960s was around 13 percent higher than the predicted value , and that for secondary education in the early 1980s was also 12 percent higher than the predicted value . 
It was found that the enrollment rate for tertiary education in the late 2000s was 46 percent higher than the predicted value . 
Third , the private sector has played a key role in the development of Korea 's education sector . 
In 2009 , 46 percent of high school students were enrolled in private schools , and 79 percent of university students were enrolled in private universities -LRB- Figure 6-11 -RRB- . 
These ratios are much higher than in other OECD countries , suggesting that expansion of upper - secondary and tertiary education has relied heavily on private resources . 
Fourth , the government has directly and extensively intervened in primary education . 
In 2009 , only 1 percent of elementary school students attended private schools . 
This is in sharp contrast to the limited government financing of higher education . 
9 The intervention 
in secondary education falls in the middle , with about half of students attending private schools . 
A less government involvement in upper level education is an appropriate choice because the positive externality of education is smaller for upper level education . 
3 . 
4 Evaluation and challenges 
Not only in Korea but also elsewhere , education has played a key role in economic development , directly by creating human capital and accelerating technological progress , and indirectly by contributing to institution building and social development . 
There is extensive literature examining the role of education in economic growth starting from Barro -LRB- 1991 -RRB- and Mankiw , Romer and Weil -LRB- 1992 -RRB- . 
In the Korean case , Young Hwa Kim et al. -LRB- 1997 -RRB- explored the question of how much each level of schooling contributed to economic growth . 
each level of schooling concluded that the contribution of primary education to economic growth gradually decreased , while that of secondary and higher education increased over time . 
In related research , Jang -LRB- 2007 -RRB- studied the role that each level of education played in Korea 's economic development . 
During the 1960s and 1970s , primary education made the biggest contribution to the economy as is found in most other developing countries . 
But with economic growth in the 1970s and 1980s , secondary education started to contribute more . 
The contribution of tertiary education to economic growth in the 1980s was relatively small , though positive . 
Despite these achievements to date , the Korean educational system has many problems as well . 
Many people believe the current system with strong government intervention does not fit with a knowledge-based economy and society where creativity and diversity matter much more than before . 
A supply-centered education system was necessary at the early stage of development because A supply-centered education system enabled the government to expand education quickly at low cost . 
But A supply-centered education system is now blamed for many problems . 
A lot of students and parents express dissatisfaction with the public education system that is not very responsive to changing demands . 
A lot of students and parents accordingly resort to private tutoring or choose to study abroad . 
Table 6-1 shows that private tutoring is very common and expensive in Korea . 
Indeed , some argue that private rather than public education has been the major factor behind the excellent performance of Korean students in international academic tests . 
Many firms are not satisfied with college or university graduates and spend a large amount of money on training new employees . 
Many colleges and universities have been slow in transforming Many colleges and universities to meet changing demand , and the mismatch between jobs and academic subjects is severe -LRB- Table 6-2 -RRB- . 
There are many graduates who can not find a job after graduation and become inactive -LRB- Figure 6-12 -RRB- . 
Demographic changes are providing challenges to service providers in the higher education market . 
The school-age population is on a downward trend because of the extremely low birth rate , which will create problems particularly for private institutions that depend heavily on tuitions . 
To meet these challenges , the Korean education system needs a fundamental reform . 
First of all , students and parents should be given a wider range of choices . 
Various regulations on the operation of schools and universities should be relaxed to encourage diversity in educational programs and expand the range of choices for consumers . 
To help consumers make consumers choice , the government should provide detailed information on the performance of individual service providers . 
An evaluation system of teacher and school performance is also needed . 
The reform will strengthen the competition between service providers and contribute to enhancing service providers service quality . 
Equally important is the effort to enhance the equity of educational opportunities . 
The educational gap between rich and poor is widening . 
The government needs to provide more need-based scholarships and improve the income-contingent loan scheme introduced in 2010 . 
To finance these programs , existing financial support to universities should be carefully scrutinized for universities effectiveness because many support programs have been criticized for strengthening government controls on universities and promoting the rent-seeking activities . 
4 . 
Developments in the labor market 4 . 
1 Overview 
The Korean labor market underwent profound changes in the last 60 years in close relation to the overall development of the Korean economy . 
The abundant supply of cheap labor in the 1960s propelled the growth of labor-intensive industries . 
The rise of heavy and chemical industries -LRB- HCIs -RRB- since the 1970s increased the demand for skilled labor . 
The demand for skill grew further with the development of the ICT industry since the 1980s . 
The latter also raised the premium on education , experience and individual adaptability to changing labor demands . 
The globalization of the Korean economy accelerated these changes . 
Similar to other markets for factors of production , the labor market needs to be efficient and flexible to function properly . 
But the labor market is differentiated from other factor markets in that the factor in this case is the human being . 
The government has intervened in the market to protect workers against abuses by management , promote workers against abuses skills , and provide income support for the unemployed , even if The government entails some loss of efficiency and flexibility . 
The most urgent issue right now is boosting the employment of youth , women and the elderly in the face of decelerating population growth and increasing income inequality . 
A concerted effort across various policy areas is called for . 
In the labor market , it is necessary to reduce employment protection for individual dismissals and increase temporary employment to a level comparable to other OECD countries 
This section will review the development of the Korean labor market over the last 60 years , highlight This section important features , and discuss policy issues . 
4 . 
2 Changes in the labor market 4 . 
2.1 The first turning point 
Over the last 60 years , there were three notable turning points in the Korean labor market . 
The first of these occurred in the mid-1970s when the world of unlimited labor supply as described by Lewis -LRB- 1954 -RRB- came to an end -LRB- Moo-Ki Bai , 1982 -RRB- . 
During the first phase of economic development from the 1960s to the mid-1970s , a significant amount of the underemployed labor force was in rural areas and manpower continued to flow in a steady stream into urban areas . 
The economic powerhouses at this time were labor - intensive industries such as those producing wigs and shoes that only required simple , low-skilled labor . 
This type of labor was readily supplied by vocational high schools and the corporate training centers of large enterprises . 
As the unemployment rate declined rapidly from 8 to 4 percent -LRB- Figure 6-13 -RRB- , however , the seemingly unlimited labor supply began to dry up , signaling the end of the Lewisian world . 
In the second half of the 1970s , the transformation of the economy to one based on heavy and chemical industries -LRB- HCIs -RRB- somewhat lowered the growth elasticity of labor demand in the manufacturing sector . 
But this was countered by the increased demand from the construction sector that experienced booms in the domestic market and in the Middle East . 
The shortage of construction labor actually led to steep wage hikes in this sector -LRB- Figure 6-14 -RRB- . 
Overall wage growth outstripped output growth by a large margin in 1976-1978 -LRB- Figure 6-15 -RRB- . 
In 1980 , the economy , and the labor market in turn , entered difficult times due to a combination of factors including the second oil shock , rice crop failures and political instability . 
The unemployment rate shot up to 5.2 percent and stayed above 4 percent throughout the first half of the 1980s . 
HCIs in particular had to go through restructuring in this period . 
Nonetheless , the economy was able to regain the economy balance before any irreversible damages were done to the labor market thanks to the labor market in turn high wage flexibility . 
4 . 
2.2 The second turning point 
The second turning point for the Korean labor market happened in the late 1980s . 
Taking advantage of the `` three lows '' 10 and the wave of trade liberalism sweeping across global markets , the Korean economy expanded quite rapidly in size . 
The labor market also experienced unprecedented changes . 
Employment jumped in the manufacturing and service sectors , pushing unemployment rates down to 2.5 percent in 1988 -LRB- Figure 6-13 -RRB- . 
Price stability and wage hikes significantly increased the purchasing power of the working class . 
In 1988-1989 , wage growth exceeded productivity growth -LRB- Figure 6-15 -RRB- . 
This was also when the mismatch between labor supply and demand among different sectors became an issue . 
Measures were discussed to attract the elderly and women into the labor market , and importing labor from abroad was considered for the first time . 
During this period , political democratization gave vent to the oppressed voice of workers . 
The labor movement started to grow rapidly in July and August of 1987 after the formation of the Hyundai Motor Labor Union in Ulsan , one of the major industrial cities in the nation . 
The demands of the unions were two-fold ; better wages and the guarantee of freedom for union activities . 
The demands for wage increase were mostly accommodated and resulted in a two-digit growth rate in wages as the government refrained from intervening with police forces or arresting union leaders . 
This led to a surge in unionization and wage strikes in almost all industrial complexes in the nation -LRB- Figure 6-16 -RRB- . 
Company - controlled unions were ousted as democracy extended the nation -LRB- Figure 6-16 -RRB- reach to trade unions as well . 
The number of unions rose from 2,700 in June 1987 to 7,800 in 1989 , while union membership increased from 1.05 million to 1.93 million . 
Labor union participation rate rose from 12 percent in 1986 to 19 percent in 1989 -LRB- Figure 6-17 -RRB- . 
Entering the 1990s , wage growth slowed and came in line with productivity growth by 1993 as the nation suffered a recession following the end of the `` three-low '' period -LRB- Figure 6-15 -RRB- . 
But working conditions kept improving as indicated by the rising share of salaried workers and regular employees among all workers -LRB- Table 6-3 , Figure 6-18 -RRB- . 
The employment rate continued to rise in this period for both male and female workers -LRB- Figure 6 - 19 -RRB- . 
Production workers in manufacturing were placed in a particularly favorable position . 
Thanks to the educational reform of 1981 that doubled university capacity , the supply of highly-educated workers increased greatly from the second half of the 1980s . 
In contrast , the supply of production workers in manufacturing decreased , causing a serious labor shortage and steep wage growth for these workers . 
This is reflected in the falling premium on education through the mid-1990s -LRB- Figure 6-20 -RRB- . 
4 . 
2.3 The third turning point 
The Korean labor market encountered The Korean labor market third turning point in the mid-1990s . 
The advance of ICT since the 1980s reduced the demand for low-skilled workers carrying out simple , repetitive functions and placed low-skilled workers carrying out simple , repetitive functions at a disadvantage vis-a-vis ‵ highly-skilled workers . 
In addition , globalization further aggravated the weakening status of low-skilled workers as imports from low-wage countries -LRB- especially China -RRB- increased and as domestic firms moved domestic firms plants to these countries to reduce production costs . 
Globalization also intensified competition between firms and increased firms need for flexible labor management in response to constantly changing business conditions . 
As a result , overall job security declined and wage distribution deteriorated . 
The share of temporary employees among salaried workers started to rise in 1994 -LRB- Figure 6-21 -RRB- . 
The wage premium on education rose again in the latter half of the 1990s despite the increasing supply of university graduates -LRB- Figure 6-20 -RRB- . 
The wage gap between young and prime-age workers also widened in the midst of the falling supply of young workers . 
The gap between workers within the same educational or age group also increased -LRB- Won Duck Lee , 2004 -RRB- . 
These changes indicate a rising premium on skill , experience and individual adaptability to changing labor demands . 
The economic crisis at the end of 1997 served to increase uncertainties in job security and exacerbated the income inequality . 
The crisis propelled the corporate labor - management paradigm into abrupt and profound changes . 
Firms turned more careful in Firms investment and recruiting decisions , and began to rely more on outsourcing and non - regular employment . 
Employment adjustment became an ongoing process , and wage disparity rose as firm 's compensation and training systems were adjusted in favor of the highly-skilled workers . 
4 . 
3 Recent changes in the structure of the labor market 4 . 
3.1 Increasing role of female workers 
Between 1963 and 2009 , employment grew three-fold from 7.6 million to 23.5 million . 
In this period , the share of female workers in total employment increased from 35 to 42 percent . 
The female employment rate increased steadily from 34 percent in 1963 and reached a peak of 49 percent in 2007 , before experiencing a setback in the following years due to the global financial crisis -LRB- Figure 6-19 -RRB- . 
In contrast , the male employment rate has fluctuated between 70 and 75 percent since the 1960s and contributed little to the rise of the total employment rate . 
Female workers played a particularly important role in the 1960s and 1970s in labor - intensive industries . 
In the 1980s and 1990s , Female workers labor market participation continued to expand as more women completed high school or university . 
Most noticeable has been the increased labor market participation of women in the age group 25-29 -LRB- Figure 6-22 -RRB- . 
In spite of progress to date , Korea 's employment rate is still lower than that of many other OECD countries -LRB- Figure 6-23 -RRB- . 
There is the urgent need to encourage the labor market participation of more women to minimize the impact of the decline in the working - age population on output growth . 
Efforts are required to help increase the supply of affordable and reliable childcare services , reduce very long working hours , and eliminate various practices that make it difficult for women to reconcile work and family life . 
4 . 
3.2 Employment expansion in the service sector 
The employment share of the agriculture , forestry and fishing industries declined dramatically since the early 1960s . 
Currently , only 7 percent of all workers are in the primary sector -LRB- Table 6-4 -RRB- . 
The employment share of manufacturing rose in the early industrialization period but began to fall after reaching a peak of 28 percent in 1989 . 
The employment share of manufacturing share is now 16 percent . 
The number of workers in manufacturing went down from 5.2 million in 1991 to 3.8 million in 2009 . 
The service sector has expanded The service sector employment continuously . 
The number of workers increased from 2.0 million in 1963 to 16.2 million in 2009 , and the employment share rose from 26 to 69 percent . 
Within the service sector , wholesale and retail trade , along with hotels and restaurants , accounted for about half of the employment in 1980 but one third in 2009 . 
The number of workers in these businesses fell from 6.0 million in 2002 to 5.5 million in 2009 , indicating a continuous restructuring in this sector . 
4 . 
3.3 Increasing share of professionals and clerical occupations 
By occupation , the group of professionals , technicians , administrators and managers has increased the group of professionals , technicians , administrators and managers share in total employment since the 1960s due to the growth of knowledge - based industries and enhanced skill requirements -LRB- Table 6-5 -RRB- . 
The proportion of clerks also had been increasing before the financial crisis of 1997 , which led to a widespread restructuring in firms and a sudden 13 percent drop in clerical jobs between 1997 and 1999 . 
In the 2000s , however , the increase resumed . 
On the other hand , service and sales workers saw service and sales workers share falling in the 2000s . 
The share of machine operators , assemblers and manual workers is also stagnating at around 33 percent . 
These indicate the deteriorating position of low-skilled workers . 
4 . 
3.4 High incidence of non-standard workers and self-employment 
The Korean labor market is distinguished from those in other OECD countries by the prevalence of non-standard workers -LRB- temporary employees or day laborers -RRB- and self - employment -LRB- Figure 6-24 -RRB- . 
First , a large number of workers work as temporary employees or day laborers with a short duration and low job security . 
In 2009 , 43 percent of salaried workers were either temporary employees or day laborers . 
The incidence of non-standard work is particularly high among women , older workers and the less-educated , whereas younger and highly-educated male workers mainly enjoy regular jobs . 
In 2006 , the share of non-standard workers was 20 percent in large firms with 300 and more employees and about 50 percent in small firms with less than 5 employees . 
As a result , two-thirds of non-standard workers were employed in small firms with less than 30 employees . 
Non-standard workers employed in large firms with more than 300 employees were only 7 percent . 
The share of non-standard workers among salaried workers started to rise in 1994 but reversed course in 2001 -LRB- Figure 6-21 -RRB- . 
The share of non-standard workers among salaried workers absolute number stayed at 7.2-7.3 million since 2002 , but the healthy increase of regular employees caused regular employees share to fall -LRB- Figure 6-25 -RRB- . 
The dynamics behind such changes is not well understood . 
The study by Yong - Seong Kim -LRB- 2009 -RRB- suggests that some non-standard workers do move upward by finding regular jobs , but many others exit the labor market to be replaced by new entrants who have regular jobs . 
Second , the self-employed accounted for 24 percent of all employment in 2009 . 
the self-employed share , however , had been falling since the 1960s -LRB- Figure 6-26 -RRB- . 
The trend stopped in the 1990s but resumed in the 2000s . 
More dramatic has been the decline in the number and share of unpaid family workers . 
Again , it is not clear how these changes are related to the increase of regular employees . 
In any case , the transition toward regular employment looks desirable as the transition toward regular employment will lead to increased job stability , a smaller underground economy , and greater coverage of social insurance programs . 
4 . 
3.5 Increasing share of part-time workers 
The share of part-time workers has been increasing over the years -LRB- Figure 6-27 -RRB- . 
In 2008 , 15 percent of all workers spent less than 36 hours per week in all workers jobs , and 9 percent less than 30 hours per week . 
Part-time employment declined a little in 2009 . 
The share of part-time employment in Korea is still lower than those in many other OECD countries -LRB- Panel -LRB- a -RRB- of Figure 6-28 -RRB- . 
In the Netherlands , for example , part-time employment accounts for one-third of total employment . 
Korea ranks in the middle in terms of the full-time employment rate -LRB- Panel -LRB- b -RRB- of Figure 6-28 -RRB- . 
The rising number of part-time jobs would help increase the overall employment rate . 
4 . 
3.6 Minimum wage 
The minimum wage system was introduced in 1988 to protect low-skilled workers . 
The minimum wage system was first applied to firms with 10 or more full-time employees in the manufacturing sector . 
Coverage was extended to firms with 10 or more employees in 1990 across all sectors , to firms with 5 or more employees in 1999 , and finally to all firms in November 2000 . 
The minimum wage has been continuously raised in nominal value since The minimum wage introduction . 
As a percentage of the median or mean wage , The minimum wage initially declined until 1996 - 1997 and then began to rise -LRB- Figure 6-29 -RRB- . 
In 2008 , The minimum wage corresponded to 39 percent of the median wage and 32 of the mean wage . 
The minimum wage level is still on the low side in terms of international comparisons -LRB- Figure 6-30 -RRB- . 
4 . 
3.7 Working Hours 
The Labor Standards Act of 1953 stipulated the maximum working hours of eight hours a day and 48 hours a week . 
After 36 years , the weekly ceiling was lowered to 44 hours in 1989 . 
After another 15 years , the weekly ceiling was lowered further to 40 hours in July 2004 . 
The 40-hour ceiling was initially applied to firms with 1,000 or more employees and then was gradually extended to firms of different sizes . 
As of 2010 , firms with 20 or more employees are subject to the 40-hour ceiling . 
Even with the ceiling , overtime work is allowed up to 12 hours a week , provided that overtime work has been agreed upon between workers and the management and that the hourly pay for overtime work is at least 50 percent higher than that for normal work . 
The number of hours worked per worker per year has been declining over the last two decades -LRB- Figure 6-31 -RRB- . 
Between 1986 and 2008 , it declined by 23 percent from 2,923 to 2,256 hours . 
Nevertheless , Koreans currently work the longest hours in the OECD area -LRB- Figure 6-32 -RRB- . 
Such long working hours partly -LRB- but not entirely -RRB- reflect the low incidence of part-time work and makes it difficult to reconcile work and family life . 
4 . 
3.8 Labor market flexibility 
As pointed out by Grubb , Lee and Tergeist -LRB- 2007 -RRB- , the Korean labor market is suffering from a duality between the core and the periphery , with the former showing high inflexibility and the latter high insecurity -LRB- Table 6-6 -RRB- . 
At the core is a group of workers who mostly have regular jobs in the manufacturing or public sector or in large corporations . 
a group of workers who mostly have regular jobs in the manufacturing or public sector or in large corporations often have labor unions to represent a group of workers who mostly have regular jobs in the manufacturing or public sector or in large corporations , enjoy a high level of employment protection , are covered under the social safety net -LRB- public pensions , unemployment benefits , etc. -RRB- , and participate in active labor market policies -LRB- training , etc. -RRB- . 
Numerical and functional flexibility is very low as firms have difficulty in adjusting labor inputs in response to changing demands . 
The core is structured around the unionized segment of the labor market , which is small in Korea compared to those in other countries -LRB- Figure 6-33 -RRB- . 
In contrast , the periphery of the Korean labor market is populated by the workers who usually do not have regular jobs , work in the service sector and/or in SMEs , enjoy a very low level of employment protection , and are excluded from the coverage of social safety net and active labor market policies -LRB- ALMPs -RRB- . 
Their job security is very low and functional flexibility is irrelevant to them . 
In international comparisons of labor market flexibility , Korea shows an average performance . 
For example , in a comparison of 33 OECD countries , Korea ranked 21st in the dismissal of permanent workers , 19th in the regulations on temporary workers , and 6th in collective dismissal , taking the 16th place in the overall ranking -LRB- Table 6-7 -RRB- . 
Such comparisons , however , should be made with care . 
First of all , as the OECD index is focused on regulations concerning dismissal and temporary employment , the OECD index does not take into account wage or functional rigidities within the internal labor market of large corporations that result from a seniority-based pay scheme , labor union interference in managerial decisions -LRB- such as the deployment of workers -RRB- , and other inappropriate practices . 
On the other hand , the statutory employment protection loses much of the statutory employment protection meaning when applied to the periphery of the labor market where market forces take precedence over laws and regulations that lack an effective enforcement mechanism . 
The overall labor market flexibility can therefore be substantially higher than implied by the OECD index . 
The rigidity seems concentrated at the core that has very militant labor unions and is protected from competition by very militant labor unions monopolistic position in the product market . 
4 . 
4 Labor market challenges 
Because labor demand is a derived demand of the product market , changes in the product market have triggered changes in the labor market . 
In the 1960s and 1970s , when labor-intensive industries were leading economic growth , less-skilled labor found ample job opportunities . 
As the economic importance of HCIs increased in the 1970s and 1980s , demand for skilled labor increased . 
Following the advent of ICT in the 1990s , demand for labor in the ICT sector has increased rapidly . 
Korea has also experienced changes in labor-management relations over the past 60 years . 
In the early years , greater emphasis was placed on economic growth than on workers ' rights . 
With democratization beginning in the latter half of the 1980s , the number of trade unions increased rapidly and created a new terrain for labor-management relations . 
These changes have had positive effects on workers ' welfare , but the spread of adversarial labor-management relations and militant labor movements is now widely seen as disrupting Korea 's social and political stability and threatening Korea 's sustained economic growth . 
The Korean labor market is currently undergoing further changes . 
The remainder of this subsection summarizes necessary policy responses to these changes . 
The most important issue is raising the employment rate that still lags behind those in other advanced countries . 
This requires efforts to create demand for labor as well as to encourage the supply , and needs a concerted effort across various policy areas . 
Important tasks include maintaining macroeconomic stability ; promoting market competition and entrepreneurship ; enhancing the quality of educational services across all levels of schooling ; and improving ALMPs , in particular for those on the margin of labor market . 
Three groups deserve special attention in this regard . 
The first is youth . 
In 2009 , 39 percent of the unemployed were aged 15-29 . 
The unemployment rate of this age group -LRB- 8.1 percent -RRB- was way above the total unemployment rate -LRB- 3.6 percent -RRB- . 
The actual number of youth looking for work is probably much higher than the official statistics suggest because many of The actual number of youth looking for work are discouraged from entering the labor market . 
Of particular concern is the low job market performance of university graduates . 
Currently more than 80 percent of high school graduates move on to higher education , but many university students do not seek work after graduation or find jobs in many university students field of study -LRB- OECD , 2008 -RRB- . 
Ways must be sought to help high school graduates to make appropriate choice between higher education and work , and to facilitate the school-to - work transition of university graduates . 
The second group is women . 
More women are entering the labor market , equipped with better qualifications than before . 
The increasing accessibility of childcare services and changing social attitudes to female workers are encouraging female workers participation . 
But job security is generally low as many of job security belong to the peripheral labor market , and the gender gap in wages is larger than in other countries . 
12 Furthermore , sexual discrimination is still an issue despite the improvements made in recent years . 
Long working hours present another challenge for female workers who want to reconcile work and family life . 
While it is difficult for the government to change social attitudes and business practices , efforts are still needed to closely monitor the determinants of the female employment rate and intervene when necessary . 
Promoting the employment of the elderly will also gain greater importance in the near future . 
Currently , the elderly employment rate in Korea is among the highest in the OECD area as many people can not depend on the underdeveloped public pension system in many people later years -LRB- OECD , 2008 -RRB- . 
But as the pension system matures , more people will choose to retire early , driving down the overall employment rate in the midst of declining population growth . 
Minimizing the disincentives to work while providing adequate income support to the elderly will become an important economic and social issue . 
Lastly , labor market flexibility should be enhanced . 
Employment protection is relatively high in terms of individual dismissal and temporary employment . 
The regulations are currently not very effective when The regulations comes to the periphery of the labor market , but as the share of regular employees rises and that of non-standard workers decline , non-standard workers effectiveness will increase . 
The labor market rigidity , especially at the core , is partly the result of government policies and partly of social customs and business practices . 
The government should make a consistent effort to increase the flexibility of the labor market by revising relevant laws and by increasing the competitive pressure in the product market through strengthened competition policy , external liberalization and privatization of public corporations . 
5 . 
Social welfare system 5 . 
1 Overview 
The fast economic growth since the 1960s was accompanied by relatively stable income distribution -LRB- Figure 6-34 -RRB- . 
Increasing job opportunities offered by industrialization helped many people escape poverty and support many people and many people families . 
The government could not afford expensive redistribution policies because of the limited tax base , but could still eradiate absolute poverty that had been so prevalent earlier and improve income distribution . 
In the early 1990s , however , income distribution stopped improving and inequality began to rise -LRB- Figure 6-35 -RRB- . 
Many explanations have been offered for the turn of events , including -LRB- 1 -RRB- globalization and the rise of the knowledge-based economy that put low - skilled workers at a greater disadvantage , -LRB- 2 -RRB- growing productivity gaps between manufacturing and services , HCIs and light industries , and large and small businesses , -LRB- 3 -RRB- stagnant employment growth , -LRB- 4 -RRB- an inadequate social safety net , and -LRB- 5 -RRB- an aging population . 
Employment Insurance System -LRB- EIS -RRB- to all types of enterprises in 1998 , and the introduction of the National Basic Livelihood Security Program in 2000 -LRB- Table 6-8 -RRB- . 
With the expansion of the social security system , welfare spending has been growing rapidly -LRB- Figure 6-36 -RRB- . 
Health and social protection each accounts for about half of welfare spending . 
Despite its rapid growth , the current level of social expenditure 13 is far below that of other advanced countries -LRB- Figure 6-37 -RRB- . 
The gap is especially large in the cases of old age and health . 
This reflects the relative underdevelopment of the Korean pension system and the smaller demand for health care in Korea , the latter being attributable to lower income levels and a younger age structure of the population until recently . 
But social expenditure will rise rapidly in coming years as more people become eligible for pension benefits , the income level increases , and population aging proceeds . 
Hyung-soo Park and Byung Mok Jeon -LRB- 2009 -RRB- expect that even when no new programs are added in the future , Korea 's social expenditure will reach a level comparable to that of other OECD countries by 2050 . 
It is not certain , however , whether increasing welfare spending will help reduce income inequality because the latter is determined by a multitude of factors as mentioned above . 
A coordinated effort of macroeconomic , education , labor market , welfare and other policies is required in the uphill battle against the increase in income inequality and poverty . 
5 . 
2 The development of the social welfare system 5 . 
2.1 Pre-1960 period 
During the period of Japanese colonial rule , the Chosun Relief Order provided the first modern public relief program in Korea . 
But the Chosun Relief Order has been criticized for serving political ends rather than being a genuine social welfare program -LRB- Yong-hwan Lee et al. , 2006 ; Seop - joong Shin et al. , 1999 ; Chan-young Yoon et al. , 1998 -RRB- . 
Welfare programs between the signing of the Korean War armistice in 1953 and the launch of the first economic development plan in 1961 comprised mainly of offering emergency relief assistance to refugees and orphans displaced by the war . 
Little more could be done since the government lacked funding to support welfare programs . 
Article 19 of the Constitution spoke of giving public assistance to the most vulnerable , namely the old , the disabled or the unemployed . 
Limited access to welfare services was offered to the poor , women and children , and the disabled . 
The government did not provide much assistance , which instead was mainly the responsibility of civil organizations , overseas aid institutions and religious bodies . 
The government 's role was mostly confined to setting up welfare institutions for injured soldiers and policemen and welfare institutions for injured soldiers and policemen families , which provided public assistance , jobs and housing . 
Other early steps toward creating a social security system included the Labor Standards Act in May 1953 and the Charter for Children in 1956 . 
The former did not have much real meaning given the dearth of profitable businesses and the lack of the government 's administrative capacity . 
Much the same applied to the latter . 
5 . 
2.2 1960-1980 : Low priority on welfare programs 
Korea 's top priority during this period was economic growth as reflected in the Five - Year Economic Development Plans that dominated the government policy . 
Despite the low priority on welfare programs , however , several steps were taken in this period toward building a proper social security system in Korea . 
The Livelihood Protection Act was introduced in 1962 to provide public assistance to the poor . 
The Livelihood Protection Act was criticized for stigmatizing The Livelihood Protection Act recipients because of The Livelihood Protection Act implicit suggestion that its recipients were to be blamed for its recipients poverty , but The Livelihood Protection Act was still an important step . 
In addition , the Social Security Act was enacted in 1963 to serve as a framework for welfare programs . 
In the same year , the Military Personnel Pension was introduced in addition to the Government Employees Pension that had been introduced in 1960 . 
The Health Insurance Act was established but The Livelihood Protection Act did not stipulate compulsory participation for any group in Korean society . 
In 1964 , the Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance Act was introduced in line with the Economic Development Plans to provide support for workers suffering disabilities as a result of industrial accidents . 
the Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance Act was the first social insurance program implemented in Korea . 
In addition , an industrial rehabilitation center was established under the auspices of the National Labor Office in 1971 to provide occupational training . 
There was also a growing recognition of the need for welfare programs to take care of the elderly . 
The submission of the Basic Plan for Social Development in 1968 by the Social Security Review Committee led to several follow-up proposals , including the establishment of the Act on the Welfare of the Elderly , the development of pension programs , the expansion of medical facilities , the provision of employment opportunities for the elderly , an increase in the legal retirement age and the designation of the Day for the Elderly . 
The suggestions , however , failed to draw much attention from the government , which was preoccupied with economic growth . 
In 1973 , the National Assembly passed the National Welfare and Pension Act , but it was not implemented due to adverse social and economic conditions , including the two global oil shocks of the 1970s . 
Only the Teachers Pension was added to the public pension system in 1975 . 
In 1976 , the Health Insurance Act was revised to stipulate compulsory participation of workers at firms with 500 or more employees beginning in 1977 . 
The coverage was extended in 1979 to include those at firms with 300 or more employees . 
The year 1979 also witnessed the establishment of a compulsory health insurance program for government employees and teachers . 
It is significant since the introduction of compulsory health insurance was done at the behest of government rather than in response to public demands . 
As for low-income households , the Health Care Protection Act was introduced in 1977 to provide low-income households with medical services . 
A welfare program for the disabled was also introduced in the 1970s . 
The Ministry of Health and Social Affairs announced in 1978 the Comprehensive Welfare Program for Mentally and Physically Disabled Persons . 
Although the program was largely limited to public assistance measures , A welfare program for the disabled did introduce rehabilitation treatment policies as well . 
To summarize , basic social insurance programs were introduced in the 1960s and 1970s , including the Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance -LRB- 1964 -RRB- ; pensions for government employees -LRB- 1960 -RRB- , military personnel -LRB- 1963 -RRB- and teachers -LRB- 1975 -RRB- ; and health insurances for private sector workers in large firms -LRB- 1977 -RRB- and government employees and teachers -LRB- 1979 -RRB- . 
In addition , basic programs of public assistance and social services were introduced for the poor and the disabled . 
These programs were quite limited in basic programs of public assistance and social services scope but Korea could improve income distribution due to the rapid growth of labor-intensive industries and the rapid increase of job opportunities . 
5 . 
2.3 1980-1997 : Social welfare gains attention 
Toward the end of the 1970s , the government-led , growth-first strategy that had been pursued since the 1960s began to produce various social problems . 
The improvement in income distribution stopped or was partially reversed as the government actively promoted capital-intensive industries at the cost of macroeconomic stability -LRB- Il SaKong , 1993 , p. 18 -RRB- . 
The poor , in particular , were affected by rising inflation . 
With the improvement in general living conditions , public attention was drawn to the income gaps between rich and poor and between different regions of the country . 
These developments highlighted the need for larger and more effective welfare programs . 
The Chun Doo-hwan administration that came into office in 1980 announced a radical departure from past economic and social policies . 
The Chun Doo-hwan administration that came into office in 1980 placed priority on promoting private initiatives and stabilizing inflation . 
The Chun Doo-hwan administration that came into office in 1980 also set out as a goal `` the establishment of a welfare society . '' 
15 The revised 1980 constitution made firm commitments on the state ' responsibility to provide a social safety net and this was followed by the enactment of major laws on welfare programs . 
Welfare spending jumped in the early 1980s -LRB- Figure 6 - 36 -RRB- . 
In 1981 , a pilot project was started to provide a community-based health insurance program to residents in rural areas , while the company-based health insurance program was extended to firms with 100 or more employees . 
Coverage was then extended to companies with 16 or more employees in 1982 and 5 or more employees in 1988 . 
Meanwhile , the community-based program was extended to all rural residents in 1988 and to all urban residents in 1989 . 
This resulted in the creation of a universal health insurance system -LRB- Table 6-9 -RRB- , a feat that was accomplished in only 12 years , the shortest time a community-based health insurance program has taken anywhere in the world -LRB- Deutsche Gesellschaft fur ¨ Technische Zusammenarbeit , 2005 ; Ensor , 1999 -RRB- . 
The Livelihood Protection Act , which provided public assistance , was revised in 1982 to expand the types of assistance that could be offered to the destitute , with the aim of providing better access to education and jobs . 
The introduction of the Act on the Welfare of the Elderly in June 1981 created the legal basis to offer welfare benefits to the older population . 
Starting from 1982 , people aged 65 or older received discounts on the use of mass transit , museum admissions and visits to public baths and barber facilities . 
A free medical diagnosis program for the elderly was introduced in 1983 . 
In 1987 , a pilot project was launched to provide welfare services to older persons forced to stay at home . 
Two years later , the government began an allowance payment program for the elderly . 
This involved paying 10,000 won a month to 76,000 heads of households who were aged 70 or older and who were receiving some form of assistance . 
Regulations on nursing homes for the elderly were introduced in 1988 and those governing senior citizens ' community centers in 1989 . 
The National Pension Scheme -LRB- NPS -RRB- , covering workers in firms with 10 or more employees , was implemented in 1988 . 
In 1992 , the compulsory coverage was expanded to firms with 5 or more employees . 
the compulsory coverage was expanded further in 1995 to farmers , fishermen and the self-employed in rural areas , and finally in 1999 to the self-employed in urban areas . 
This completed the move toward a universal public pension scheme . 
Welfare services for the disabled were expanded as well . 
Between 1985 and 1987 , a program was implemented to modernize welfare facilities for the disabled . 
A Comprehensive Welfare Program for the Disabled Persons was launched in 1986 , and a pilot program to register the disabled for services was carried out the following year . 
In 1989 , the government launched a program to increase the housing stock and supply rental housing to low-income households in response to the sharp rise in housing prices 
and rental costs . 
The program continued until 1992 and the housing supply ratio 18 jumped from 70.9 to 79.1 percent between 1989 and 1993 . 
19 
The Act on the Employment Promotion of the Handicapped was passed in 1990 and implemented the following year with the goal of providing jobs for the disabled and encouraging the disabled social integration . 
The law required that public enterprises and private - sector firms with 300 or more employees employ the disabled until public enterprises and private - sector firms with 300 or more employees accounted for 2 percent of the total workforce . 
This was an important step in providing economic support to the handicapped . 
The Pre-school Age Children Care Act was enacted in January 1991 to expand childcare facilities , improve the protection and education for children , and support children in families in need of assistance . 
In 1998 , the government stopped requiring that childcare facilities be certified before going into operation , but instead only be registered with the authorities . 
This was to encourage the expansion of childcare facilities . 
The system was , however , changed back to the certification system in 2004 . 
Another important development in this period was the introduction of the Employment Insurance System -LRB- EIS -RRB- in 1995 . 
With this , Korea came to have all four types of major social insurance programs . 
The EIS is comprised of two programs , one being the traditional unemployment benefit program and the other a group of ALMPs such as wage subsidies , vocational training and employment services . 
The idea was that preventing unemployment through ALMPs was as important as providing relief measures to the unemployed . 
Initially , the unemployment benefit program covered firms with 30 or more employees and the ALMPs those with 70 or more employees . 
The coverage was expanded rapidly in 1998 . 
To summarize , the period from 1980 to the mid-1990s witnessed an important change in the stance toward welfare policies , with the introduction of two social insurance programs － the NPS -LRB- 1988 -RRB- and the EIS -LRB- 1995 -RRB- － and the creation of universal health insurance -LRB- 1989 -RRB- . 
The Livelihood Protection Program and welfare services for the disabled , children and other vulnerable groups were expanded . 
These changes accelerated the growth of welfare spending . 
Nonetheless , welfare spending amounted to only 3.5 percent of GDP in 1997 . 
Only those workers at firms with 30 or more employees were covered by the unemployment benefit program of the EIS . 
The old-age pension of the NPS was not available to retirees because The old-age pension of the NPS required at least 15 years of prior contribution while the NPS had been introduced less than 10 years earlier . 
20 The public assistance and welfare services provided limited benefits and the delivery system was not well organized . 
The economic crisis of 1997 exposed the weaknesses of the Korean social security system and played a catalytic role in the Korean social security system subsequent enlargement . 
5 . 
2.4 Post-1997 : Social welfare reaches maturity 
The economic crisis produced extreme hardships . 
The unemployment rate skyrocketed to 7 percent in 1998 from less than 3 percent in preceding years . 
Due to the limited coverage of the EIS , only 10 percent of the unemployed could receive unemployment benefits -LRB- Figure 6-38 -RRB- . 
The Gini coefficient rose by 13 percent from 0.27 in 1997 to 0.31 in 1998 -LRB- Figure 6-35 -RRB- . 
The increasing unemployment and poverty raised public awareness about the need for a well-functioning social safety net and helped forge a national consensus on the issue . 
This coincided with the election of Kim Dae-jung as the new president , which represented the first peaceful transfer of power to the opposition in Korea 's postwar history . 
In response to the crisis , the government increased wage subsidies to firms that retained redundant workers and expanded vocational training for the unemployed within the framework of the EIS . 
In March 1998 , a public works program was introduced to create jobs directly with public money . 
This program played a major role during the crisis in providing emergency support to the poor . 
Unemployed college graduates could also benefit from government-paid internships at private companies . 
At the same time , the government made important changes to the EIS and the public assistance program . 
First , the coverage of the unemployment benefit program of the EIS was extended rapidly in 1998 to firms with at least 10 employees -LRB- January -RRB- , to those with at least 5 employees -LRB- March -RRB- , and eventually to those with one or more employees -LRB- October -RRB- . 
Since then , the beneficiaries of the EIS have increased in number -LRB- Figure 6-38 -RRB- . 
Second , a new revised public assistance program , the National Basic Livelihood Security Program -LRB- NBLSP -RRB- , was introduced in 2000 . 
The NBLSP stipulated the state ' responsibility to guarantee minimum living standards for the whole population by providing benefits to households below the poverty line . 
It has been , however , criticized for discouraging participants from seeking employment because participants benefits decline by the same amount as participants earnings increase . 
All types of benefits -LRB- health , housing , education , etc. -RRB- are given to those below the poverty line , but none at all to those above it . 
These features impart to the beneficiaries a strong incentive not to work and escape from poverty . 
Other important changes under the Kim administration were the consolidation of the various national health insurance schemes into the National Health Insurance -LRB- NHI -RRB- in 1999 and the revision of the National Pension Act the same year . 
The latter finally completed the process of bringing all workers under the compulsory system and at the same time adjusted the contribution and benefit scheme to make the program more financially sustainable in the long term . 
Specifically , the replacement rate 22 was reduced from 70 to 60 percent for participants who had contributed to the NPS for 40 years and earned a wage equivalent to the average among the NPS participants . 
the NPS also required the government to make a forecast estimate on the long-term financial conditions of the NPS every five years and submit a report to the National Assembly . 
While the first NPS reform embodied in the revised Act failed to eliminate the financial instability of the NPS , the first NPS reform was still a remarkable achievement given the difficulties other countries have experienced in other countries have experienced in their pension reform pension reform . 
Success factors included the very small number of NPS beneficiaries at the time , the public 's concern about the tax burden of future generations , the advocacy role of research institutions such as KDI , and the economic crisis of 1997 that weakened resistance to reforms of any sort . 
The Roh Moo-hyun administration -LRB- 2003-2008 -RRB- that followed the Kim 's administration were added in this period . 
Among the Kim 's administration , the Emergency Relief Program -LRB- 2006 -RRB- offers temporary assistance to the households suffering a sudden loss of income . 
The Long-Term Care Insurance -LRB- 2008 -RRB- provides in-kind benefits to the severely disabled older persons . 
The Long-Term Care Insurance -LRB- 2008 -RRB- is funded by a surtax on the contribution to the NHI . 
The Earned Income Tax Credit -LRB- 2008 -RRB- supplements the earnings of low-income workers with cash benefits to encourage cash benefits participation in the labor market and support cash benefits living conditions . 
The first benefits were offered in 2009 for earnings made in 2008 . 
The Basic Old-Age Pension -LRB- 2008 -RRB- is a public assistance program for the elderly with low incomes . 
In 2008 , 60 percent of those aged 65 or more were to benefit from the program . 
The target was raised to 70 percent in 2009 . 
Given the small amount of benefit per recipient , 25 the program invited criticism for spreading scare resources thinly over a large segment of the older population . 
Another notable development was the rapid increase in spending for the care and education of pre-school age children starting with the Roh 's administration -LRB- Table 6-10 -RRB- . 
Spending grew by 43 percent per year in 2002-2010 . 
the Roh 's administration -LRB- Table 6-10 -RRB- had multiple purposes , including securing equal opportunities for children 's educational development , investing in human resources , encouraging child-bearing , and promoting the labor market participation of mothers . 
In the meantime , the NPS underwent a second round of reforms in 2007 . 
Based on the result of the long-term financial projection published in 2003 that predicted that the accumulated savings in the NPS would be depleted by 2047 , the government began an intense consensus-building process to arrive at a reform formula . 
The business community preferred a drastic cut in benefits to minimize the growth in contributions , whereas labor unions and civic groups opposed benefit cuts -LRB- National Pension Service , 2008 -RRB- . 
In the end , most parties agreed to the necessity of reform , and a middle ground was found by reducing the replacement rate by 10 percentage point from 60 percent in 2007 to 50 percent in 2008 , and then by 0.5 percentage point each year over the next 20 years to arrive finally at 40 percent in 2028 . 
Despite the reform of the NPS , total welfare spending kept increasing rapidly in this period . 
In the mid-2000s , it became the largest spending category , surpassing economic affairs , education and defense -LRB- See Figure 1-16 in Chapter 1 -RRB- . 
It is of interest that all administrations in this period advocated some form of `` workfare . '' 
For example , the Kim 's administration adopted `` productive welfare '' as the Kim 's administration slogan and emphasized that while welfare programs should be expanded , welfare programs also needed to be structured in a way that would allow recipients to develop recipients own capabilities and eventually become self-sufficient and no longer dependent on state support . 
However , such rhetoric was not evident in actual policies such as the National Basic Livelihood Security Program , which contained strong disincentives for seeking work . 
5 . 
3 Assessment and future policy directions 
Despite its relatively short history , the social security system in Korea has expanded and matured to the point where it is deeply embedded in society . 
But there are a number of difficult challenges that still must be tackled in order that it can reach full fruition . 
The first issue concerns the effectiveness of the system , that is , whether the social security system in Korea is serving the social security system in Korea purpose of reducing poverty and inequality . 
For now , the relative poverty in Korea is rather high among OECD countries -LRB- Figure 6-39 -RRB- and the role of the tax and transfer system extremely limited -LRB- Figure 6-40 -RRB- . 
But care is needed in interpreting these data . 
As explained at the beginning , income distribution is influenced not only by the social welfare system but also by economic conditions and many other institutions and policies . 
In particular , the apparently meager role of the tax and transfer system in Korea appears mostly attributable to the underdevelopment of the NPS . 
26 The problem , however , is that even when the NPS is fully developed , many retirees would not be able to benefit from the NPS because about 40 percent of workers are not currently covered by public pension programs -LRB- Figure 6-41 -RRB- . 
The low coverage ratio is also observed in the Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance and the EIS . 
This comes primarily from the prevalence of self-employment and temporary employment in Korea 's labor market -LRB- Figure 6-24 -RRB- , with many working at small businesses or in the service sector . 
27 Such employment patterns severely limit the government 's ability to include all workers in social insurance programs . 
To enhance the effectiveness of the social security system , efforts should be made to encourage the workers on the margins of labor market to participate in social insurance programs by , for example , reducing the workers contribution rates . 
Other important tasks include streamlining the complex programs of public assistance and social services , strengthening the delivery system , and focusing the resources on the most needy . 
The second issue is to minimize the adverse impact of the tax and transfer system on work incentives . 
As explained earlier , the National Basic Livelihood Security Program -LRB- NBLSP -RRB- has a serious defect in this regard . 
Of course , it is quite possible that many beneficiaries of the NBLSP are already working in the informal labor market as self - employed or temporary workers , and not disclosing many beneficiaries of the NBLSP income to the authorities in order to keep NBLSP benefits . 
But encouraging people to cheat on the system is in the system undesirable . 
To reduce the disincentive to work , discussion is underway on reforming the NBLSP by making the National Basic Livelihood Security Program -LRB- NBLSP -RRB- in-kind benefits -LRB- health care , education , housing , etc. -RRB- available to those over the poverty line or by limiting the National Basic Livelihood Security Program -LRB- NBLSP -RRB- coverage to those unable to work . 
This issue is not , however , restricted to the case of NBLSP . 
Other programs such as childcare support often bases the amount of benefits offered on the level of household income . 
The dilemma is unavoidable as long as the government wants to target resources on people in need . 
Still , attention should be paid to the aggregate impact of various programs on the work incentives of households , which has never been identified to date . 
Fortunately , the disincentive to work resulting from the tax system is rather weak , not only because of the large informal labor market but also the low statutory rates of taxation and social security contributions as can be inferred from the tax wedge -LRB- Table 6-11 -RRB- . 
But given the rapid increase in social security contributions -LRB- Figure 6-42 -RRB- , it is important to minimize the growth of welfare spending and increase welfare spending cost-effectiveness . 
This leads us to the third issue of assuring the long-term financial sustainability of the social security system . 
Of particular concern are the NPS and the NHI . 
As mentioned before , the NPS is expected to run out of the NPS savings by 2060 and turn into a pure pay-as - you-go system , imposing a heavy burden on future generations . 
The NHI spending has been increasing over the years -LRB- Table 6-6 -RRB- , and is set to increase further due to the rise in income levels , the development of more expensive technologies and equipment , and population aging . 
It is already costing the government about 4 trillion won -LRB- 0.4 percent of GDP -RRB- each year . 
Because there is a limit to increasing the tax revenues and social security contributions , serious efforts are required to constrain the spending growth of the NPS and the NHI , while fulfilling the NPS and the NHI fundamental roles of securing old-age income and access to affordable 
health care for the public . 
28 
The final issue is about redefining the respective responsibilities of individuals and the state in social security system . 
With ever rising income levels , individuals are better positioned than before to prepare individuals for various risks that used to be the sole responsibility of the state . 
Private pensions and private health care in particular should be encouraged to play a larger role in this regard . 
At the same time , private service providers should be allowed to enter the market for social services such as childcare , education , employment services , job training and health care . 
Their increased participation , while carrying some risks , increased participation , while carrying some risks , can help promote innovation , customer orientation and cost-savings in the delivery of services -LRB- Shleifer , 1998 ; Pearson and Martin , 2005 -RRB- . 
This does not imply that the state should play a less important role ; rather , the state should keep financing these services and make sure that service quality and distributional equity is not compromised . 
In summary , greater efforts are needed in the future to enhance the effectiveness of the social security system ; to minimize the social security system ; to minimize its adverse impact on the incentives to work ; to assure long-term financial sustainability ; adverse impact on the incentives to work ; to assure long-term financial sustainability ; and to redefine the respective responsibilities of individuals and the state and make greater use of private service providers . 
Korea 's social security system has achieved a lot of progress , and will continue to if these efforts bear fruit . 
6 . 
Health care services 
6 . 
1 Overview 
Over the past 60 years , the quality of health care in Korea has risen rapidly along with economic growth . 
Rising living standards increased demand for health care services , which resulted in increased investments in medical resources and the introduction of new medical technologies and medicines . 
In the beginning , Korea opted for a health care system based on free-market principles in terms of both funding and providing services . 
A big change in the funding arrangement took place when the compulsory social insurance system was introduced to parts of the population in the 1970s . 
The National Health Insurance -LRB- NHI -RRB- finally came to cover the entire population in 1989 . 
With the introduction of NHI , the use of medical services increased sharply . 
The rate of untreated patients fell to 7 percent in 2006 , while the life expectancy at birth and the infant mortality rate closed the gap with advanced countries -LRB- Figure 6-43 -RRB- . 
The increase in demand for medical services has also produced a sharp rise in health expenditures , from 3.9 percent of GDP in 1980 to 6.5 percent in 2008 -LRB- Figure 6-44 -RRB- . 
Meanwhile , the share of the public expenditure in total health expenditure rose from 20 to 55 percent , and the share of out-of-pocket expenditure fell from 76 to 35 percent -LRB- Figure 6 - 45 -RRB- . 
Increased health care expenditure has become a burden on government finances and the NHI scheme , with measures to control costs now being sought -LRB- see Table 6-12 in the previous section -RRB- . 
The current level of total health care expenditure is still lower than in other OECD countries , but will rise in the future as per capita income continues to grow and the population aging continues -LRB- Figure 6-46 -RRB- . 
While the public sector has increased the public sector role in funding health expenditures , private sector providers still dominate service delivery . 
In 2008 , only 10 percent of general hospitals were owned by the central or local government , 3 percent of specialized hospitals , and 0.1 percent of clinics -LRB- Table 6-13 -RRB- . 
Local governments ran a total of 3,456 health centers , health clinics and Local governments branches , but Local governments are very small in scale . 
30 A large percentage of hospitals and clinics are owned by individual physicians -LRB- 21 percent of general hospitals , 61 percent of specialized hospitals and 98 percent of clinics -RRB- . 
Individual - owned institutions are just like any other private for-profit enterprises in that there is no legal limit to what any other private for-profit enterprises in that there is no legal limit to what their owners can appropriate in profits from providing health care services owners can appropriate in profits from providing health care services . 
Many institutions defined as `` legal persons , '' such as universities and religious bodies , also own and operate health care institutions . 
Of particular importance are `` medical legal persons '' introduced with the revision of the National Medical Act in 1973 that required all legal persons to be non-profit . 
Many for-profit institutions converted into non-profit medical legal persons to enjoy tax benefits . 
Medical legal persons made up 31 percent of general hospitals and 27 percent of specialized hospitals in 2008 . 
There has been great progress in building up health care resources . 
In the 1960s and 1970s , Korea suffered from a severe shortage of health care workers , medical facilities and equipment . 
The situation has improved since then -LRB- Figure 6-47 -RRB- , and in the late 2000s Korea surpassed developed countries in terms of the number of hospital beds and advanced medical equipment . 
The latter has attracted criticism that there is excessive investment in the sector . 
As of 2008 , the number of hospital beds per 1000 persons was 7.8 , which was higher than the OECD average of 5.6 , and the number of CT scanners and MRIs per 1 million persons was 36.8 and 17.6 , respectively , surpassing the OECD average of 22.8 and 11.6 . 
The last several decades also observed the increasing importance of the health care industry to the national economy with the increase in health care expenditure . 
The last several decades has created new jobs and value-added services and has contributed to the development of a knowledge-based economy . 
Health care products such as medicines , medical equipment , dietary food products and cosmetics make substantial contributions to the national economy , with the domestic output of the health care industry increasing from 20.2 trillion won in 1985 to 89.8 trillion won in 2006 . 
Still , the health care industry has not reached the level of importance as the health care industry has in advanced countries . 
A major challenge is the aging population , which has led to a rise in chronic diseases . 
The number of people dying of cancer has increased by 45.5 percent from 94.5 per 100,000 people in 1987 to 137.5 in 2007 , and the percentage of people with major chronic diseases such as hypertension and diabetes continues to rise . 
In response , the attention of policymakers to disease prevention and health promotion has intensified . 
The National Health Promotion Act was enacted in 1995 and disease prevention and health promotion projects became a key priority . 
In addition , the Korea Food and Drug Safety Headquarters was established in 1996 to ensure the safety of medicines and foods . 
It was upgraded in status to the Korea Food and Drug Administration in 1998 . 
In July 2000 , new reform rules prevented doctors from dispensing medicine , which became the sole preserve of pharmacies . 
This was to prevent a potential conflict of interest in which doctors overprescribed medicines in order to collect a percentage of the sales . 
In the late 2000s , there was a growing awareness that health care should not only be regarded as a social service but also as a future growth industry , with more attention being paid to a future growth industry commercial aspects . 
Some progress has been made in deregulating the health service and promoting health care R&D , but there remains more room for further actions . 
6 . 
2 Development of health care policy 6 . 
2.1 Pre-1961 period 
Between 1945 and the early 1960s , little attention was paid to national health care because of limited resources . 
Still , efforts were made to provide basic health care services . 
The government promulgated the National Medical Act in 1951 and set up 500 health clinics throughout the nation to deal with urgent tasks such as treating infectious diseases and providing medical relief during and after the Korean War . 
The health clinics were replaced in the early 1960s by bigger health centers in accordance with the Health Center Act . 
The number of health centers grew from 80 in 1960 to 87 in 1961 and 189 in 1962 . 
The government also focused on creating an organized management system for medical services and medical facilities . 
6 . 
2.2 1962-1976 : Building the basic health care infrastructure 
Public health issues were relatively ignored between the early 1960s and the mid-1970 , with investments in the sector being low , as Korea focused on economic growth under the first three Five-Year Plans . 
Some reforms , however , were introduced in public health care . 
The Health Insurance Act was introduced in 1963 and a pilot project was launched . 
In August 1970 , the revised Health Insurance Act introduced a compulsory national health insurance system to some segments of the population . 
The state-run medical insurance fund was to provide insurance coverage to civil servants , military personnel and workers overseas . 
Voluntary medical insurance cooperatives also were to be established for other types of workers . 
But the Act could not be implemented due to a lack of financial and medical resources . 
A mandatory health insurance system was finally introduced 1977 to cover companies with more than 500 employees . 
Family planning projects were a key component of health care services in the 1960s as the government sought to curb high birth rates . 
This was complemented by efforts to promote health care programs aimed at women and children to reduce the high levels of infant mortality , which made parents want many children to compensate for the death of some and was a main cause for the high birth rates at the time . 
There were also efforts to expand the infrastructure for the provision of basic and essential health care services despite scarce government resources . 
Programs were focused on dealing with the control of infectious diseases , tuberculosis , leprosy and parasites . 
This was achieved through regional health care networks that tried to reach villages that normally lacked a doctor and taught ways to achieve a healthier lifestyle . 
For urban populations , there was increased attention on a rise in chronic diseases , such as cancer and hypertension , caused by industrialization . 
6 . 
2.3 1977-1994 : Growth in health care services 
The introduction and expansion of the NHI system was the defining feature of health care policy during the late 1970s and 1980s , which led to the increased use of medical services . 
By the late 1970s , Korea started to pay more attention to social development issues . 
These changes were reflected in the fourth Five-Year Plan -LRB- 1977-1981 -RRB- . 
Under the plan , medical care was extended to recipients of public assistance , while compulsory national health insurance was introduced for firms with 500 or more workers . 
In 1979 , the insurance system was extended to civil servants , private school employees and firms with 300 or more workers , and in 1981 to firms with 100 or more workers . 
In 1988 , the system expanded to include firms with five or more workers and the self-employed in rural areas , including farmers and fishermen . 
This was followed a year later by providing health insurance to the self-employed in urban areas . 
With that step , Korea completed the development of a universal national medical insurance system in the short span of 12 years , one of the fastest rates in the world in achieving that goal . 
The introduction of the NHI system represented a significant turning point in the development of health care in Korea . 
First of all , The introduction of the NHI system underscored the national commitment that all citizens should be entitled to health care and this should be provided on an equitable basis and in an efficient manner . 
The NHI system led to a dramatic increase in the use of medical services and the estimated number of untreated patients fell to 7 percent of the population by 2006 . 
The number of hospitalized days per insured person annually increased from 0.1 days in 1977 to 1.32 days in 2006 . 
The annual number of days of visits to hospitals by outpatients rose from 0.7 days to 14.7 days , raising concerns about the excessive use of medical services by the public . 
The NHI scheme shifted the supply of medical services from a market-based system to one in which government played a bigger role by funding medical expenditure . 
The government requires all Koreans to contribute to the NHI system and all hospitals and clinics to accept NHI patients . 
Such compulsory participation created controversy , but has been seen as improving public access to medical services . 
The NHI system led to the systematic collection of medical data , which has improved the efficiency of health care services and policies . 
Before The NHI system introduction , there was no systematic information on the rates of disease contagion and the use of medical services , which proved a liability in establishing data-based health care policies . 
Based on information about patients collected from the NHI system , health care resources can now be applied more effectively . 
Finally , the NHI system was a key driver in bringing medical services to rural villages . 
A village health pilot project was started in 1976 in selected farming areas , where village leaders could serve as health care advisors . 
Another pilot project established health centers in remote areas and dispatched nurses to serve as community health practitioners after six months ' training . 
The Act on Special Measures for Health Care in Farming and Fishing Villages was introduced in December 1980 , which promoted the establishment of health care centers and clinics in rural areas . 
The government encouraged the establishment of private hospitals in rural regions starting in 1980 by offering financial assistance for the building of medical facilities and the purchase of equipment . 
The expansion of the NHI system to cover all rural residents in 1988 led to the establishment of hospital-grade facilities in 41 districts . 
The NHI program also led to the growth of medical resources and services in the private sector to meet increased demand . 
There was a corresponding rise in the number of doctors and medical workers , along with an increase in the number of medical schools and hospitals . 
General hospitals expanded by 6 times between 1975 and 1990 , while specialized hospitals grew by 2.6 times and clinics by 1.8 times . 
6 . 
2.4 Post-1995 period 
In 1995 , the enactment of the National Health Promotion Act marked a dramatic shift in long-term health care planning from a focus on treating serious diseases to one on preventing diseases and promoting a healthy lifestyle . 
The reason for the shift was a change in disease patterns . 
While acute infectious diseases declined dramatically in the 1970s and 1980s because of increased vaccine supplies and improved sanitation , chronic diseases such as hypertension , diabetes and cancers multiplied due to lifestyle changes , an 
aging population and deteriorating environmental conditions . 
31 
The government started the National Health Promotion Fund in July 1997 , which was financed by a 2 won tax per pack of cigarettes . 
In 1998 , the Ministry of Health and Welfare set up a department to implement health promotion programs such as hypertension control . 
The number of key health promotion centers increased from nine to 19 between 1998 and 1999 and the `` Korea Health Fair '' was held in 2000 . 
The National Health Promotion Plan 2010 was launched in 2002 , with the goal of achieving improvements in physical and mental health by 2010 , including raising the disability-adjusted life expectancy from 66 years in 2002 to 75 years in 2010 . 
The health promotion tax was raised to 354 won per pack of cigarettes in 2004 , which supported activities at all of the 246 health promotion centers nationwide . 
The government also introduced a significant change in the organization of the NHI system to improve managerial efficiency and address the financial instability of the community-based health insurance scheme . 
32 The latter was merged with the scheme for civil servants and private school employees in October 1998 , and then with the company-based insurance scheme 34 in July 2000 . 
At first , the mergers led only to the consolidation of administrative organizations of the different schemes . 
The full consolidation of the mergers financial systems followed three years later and the cross-subsidization between the different groups of participants began in earnest . 
The National Health Insurance Corporation -LRB- NHIC -RRB- is now in charge of administering the entire NHI system as the single insurer of the public health insurance scheme . 
Questions remain whether the consolidation produced promised efficiency gains and promoted fairness in the burden of contribution among participants . 
The number of the NHIC regional offices fell by one-third after the consolidation as did the number of its total employees , 35 but the lack of consumer choice and competition between insurers in the single-insurer system can reduce NHIC 's incentive to improve efficiency further . 
The impact of cross-subsidization on the fairness is more difficult to assess because data on the income of the self-employed and other community-based participants is far less complete than that of company-based participants . 
In 2000 , there was a dramatic reform that separated the functions of doctors and pharmacists in terms of dispensing medicine . 
Doctors could no longer dispense drugs directly to patients , who now had to buy Doctors from pharmacists . 
At the same time , pharmacists could no longer sell antibiotics and other types of medicine to consumers without a doctor 's prescription . 
Additionally , the NHI system separated reimbursements for pharmaceuticals from medical care . 
The new system was meant to crack down on the over-prescription of medicine as well as to curb the abuse of drugs . 
Other objectives included encouraging the specialization of medical and pharmacy practices , promoting the early diagnosis of diseases by requiring patients to visit doctors instead of relying on the advice of pharmacists , and improving the patients ' right to know . 
The system was slated to come into effect in August 2000 , but the government , doctors and pharmacists reached full agreement on The new system implementation only in November after both doctors and pharmacists shut down both doctors and pharmacists operations in protest at the new measures . 
The system continues to remain controversial . 
Medical cost rose sharply since then , 36 and there is no clear sign that the abuse of drugs has been curbed . 
Still , the reform is generally accepted as irrevocable and a step in the right direction . 
Another challenge that the government had to deal with was the mounting NHI deficit that began in the mid-1990s . 
Until then , the NHI system had been financially stable , with reserves of 4 trillion won at the end of 1995 . 
But the NHI system suddenly recorded deficits from 1996 , a situation made worse by the 1997 financial crisis . 
Several major reasons have been citied for the growing deficits . 
One was that increases in the NHI premiums were not large enough to keep up with the increase in health care expenditures caused by an increased use of medical services , an aging population and a rise in the number of expensive medical treatment . 
In addition , the policy of separating the functions of doctors and pharmacists created a deficit of 1.9 trillion won in the NHI system by 2002 , which exhausted the NHI system accumulated reserves and forced the government to resort to short-term borrowing to fill the gap . 
In response , the government enacted the Special Act to Stabilize National Health Insurance Finances in January 2002 , which required the government to finance a fixed portion of NHI spending from the general tax revenue . 
At the same time , however , the government boosted spending growth . 
A target for the benefits coverage ratio was established to ease the burden of out-of-pocket expenditures by patients -LRB- August 2005 -RRB- . 
The out-of-pocket ratio for seriously ill patients , such as cancer patients , was lowered to 10 percent -LRB- September 2005 -RRB- , the meal costs of hospitalized patients came under benefits coverage -LRB- January 2006 -RRB- , the out-of-pocket payment for hospitalized children under 6 years of age was exempted , and similar benefits began to be provided for medicines used to treat rare or catastrophic diseases . 
As a result , the NHI benefits ratio reached 64 percent in 2006 , with the benefits ratio for cancer patients increasing from 50 percent in 2004 to 66 percent in 2005 . 
In the mid-2000s , the government focused on expanding the public health care system . 
Various initiatives were formulated and incorporated in a comprehensive plan for promoting public health care . 
The plan included developing community-based hospitals , strengthening cancer programs at the national level , and reinforcing measures to tackle infectious diseases , with a budget of 4.3 trillion won appropriated from 2005 to 2009 . 
In addition , 235.9 billion won in special taxes targeted for rural area development was used to improve the medical facilities at public health centers in rural areas . 
In the meantime , a free trade agreement between Korea and the United States -LRB- FTA -RRB- was finally concluded on April 2 , 2007 after 14 months of negotiations . 
A major issue for negotiations concerning health care was the further opening of the Korean market to U.S. pharmaceutical products . 
The opening of health care service market was reserved for future negotiation -LRB- Table 6-14 -RRB- . 
Another significant change was the partial opening of the health care service market . 
The Act on the Designation and Operation of Free Economic Zones was revised on January 27 , 2005 to allow foreign medical institutions to treat local citizens within the free economic zones . 
Additionally , the Special Act on the Establishment of Jeju Special Self - Governing Province and the Development of Free International Cities was promulgated on February 21 , 2006 to allow foreign medical institutions to be established on the island of Jeju . 
Although these measures have not resulted in the establishment of a single foreign - owned hospital in these areas , these measures is seen as a major step in terms of establishing the principle for the further opening of the medical services sector later . 
6 . 
3 Assessment and future challenges 
All countries aim to have medical systems that deliver high-quality services at affordable prices to all citizens . 
But no country has yet successfully accomplished this goal . 
Countries where the government is responsible for delivering services often have inefficiencies , long waiting times for patients to receive medical attention , and poorly-motivated medical personnel . 
Countries where the health care services are dominated by the private sector tend to have higher medical expenses and less public access to medical services . 
Korea is known to offer health care that is as good as that in developed countries in terms of providing accessible and affordable services . 
However , the health care system in Korea also has a number of problems in terms of the quality of medical services , the health care system in Korea financing , and the health care system in Korea ability to reach the most vulnerable parts of society . 
Not only is Korea faced with an aging population and a rise in chronic diseases , the health care system in Korea must also deal with changes resulting from the anticipated opening of the medical sector due to free trade agreements . 
In meeting these challenges , the following efforts are needed . 
First , the institutional arrangements to improve the quality of health care services must be strengthened . 
Most importantly , the government should step up the government efforts to generate and disseminate information on the service quality of individual providers -LRB- Heesuk Yun and Youngsun Koh , 2009 , pp.136-151 -RRB- . 
This will enable consumers to make informed choices and promote quality competition between service providers . 
Second , a more integrated and more customer-oriented delivery system is needed to reduce costs and improve service quality . 
In particular , an institutional arrangement is needed to align the operation of new long-term care programs , such as those created under the Act on Long-Term Care Insurance for Senior Citizens in April 2007 , to the overall medical service delivery system . 
Third , there is an urgent need to expand the NHI coverage for serious and costly illnesses such as cancer . 
At the same time , it is necessary to improve the financial health of the NHI by increasing the NHI revenue and reducing the NHI spending on non-essential services . 
Drug reimbursement rule that encourages the use of lower-price ones among standard - quality drugs can reduce pharmaceutical costs -LRB- Heesuk Yun , 2008 -RRB- . 
When increasing premiums , care must be taken to improve the fairness of contributions across population groups , especially between company-based and community-based participants . 
Fourth , greater emphasis should be given to disease prevention and health promotion . 
More proactive investment is needed to provide protection against disease risks for each age group , from new-born babies to senior citizens , while setting up a life-long health management system for everyone . 
Fifth , wide-ranging deregulation is needed in the health care industry . 
One example of regulation is prohibiting for-profit `` legal persons '' from entering the market while allowing individual physicians to own and operate for-profit hospitals and clinics -LRB- Table 6-13 -RRB- . 
Such regulations on market entry and business conduct should be minimized to promote investment in the health care industry and the health care industry convergence with other industries -LRB- Heesuk Yun and Youngsun Koh , 2009 -RRB- . 
In particular , allowing for-profit medical legal persons would be a great step forward in deregulating the market . 
7 . 
Women 's economic and social participation 7 . 
1 Overview 
Women made up a large part of the labor force during the 1960s when Korea launched Korea 's economic development with labor-intensive light industries . 
Women continued to play an important role during the subsequent period of accelerated growth . 
Meanwhile , Korea 's economic and social developments have improved the prospects for women 's participation in the political system , the policy-making process and civil society . 
The expansion of women 's participation has been and will remain important in the transition from a developmental society to a mature society based on tolerance and respect for the rights of minorities -LRB- Jae Yeol Lee , 2008 -RRB- . 
This section aims to review educational developments and the economic and social participation of women . 
For the purpose of exposition , we will divide the past six decades into four separate periods : the establishment of the Korean government and postwar reconstruction -LRB- 1948 to 1960 -RRB- ; the full-scale push for economic growth -LRB- the 1960s and 1970s -RRB- ; democratization and the transition to a market economy -LRB- the 1980s to 1997 -RRB- ; and the maturation of society and the recovery from economic crises -LRB- 1997 to the present -RRB- . 
Table 6-15 gives an outline of major themes . 
7 . 
2 Historical development 
7 . 
2.1 Post-war reconstruction : 1948-1959 
Korean society was marked by chaos and poverty during the Korean War and the post - war reconstruction period . 
Primary industries dominated the economy , with the agriculture , forestry and fishing accounting for 47 percent of GDP in 1953 and employing an estimated 70 percent of the workforce . 
Women 's labor participation was mostly in these sectors . 
According to a 1948 survey conducted by the government , the number of women working in companies with more than five employees was 40,268 , which was 18 percent of the total female working-age population of 223,030 . 
The main welfare policy for women was the provision of public assistance for war widows , who numbered as many as 700,000 . 
The government also focused on providing primary education for women to improve literacy rates and conducted campaigns to encourage the participation of women in the post-war reconstruction of society . 
Women were granted the right to vote under the 1948 Constitution . 
The Labor Standards Law included provisions for maternity protection and banned discrimination against women . 
These provisions had been adopted from advanced countries , but had little impact on the actual working conditions of women in Korea . 
Vocational training focused on low-skill jobs for war widows . 
The government built state-run homes for single-parent families to provide shelter and encourage economic self - reliance by providing simple vocational training . 
These institutions were financially supported by foreign aid , including the supply of basic items as well as sewing machines . 
There were 62 homes for single-parent families in operation by 1956 , but there were still too few of single-parent families in operation to meet rising demand for single-parent families in operation services . 
In 1957 , the Labor Guidance Institution for Girls was established to provide vocational skills for knitting , sewing , hairdressing and embroidering to older girls who had to leave the orphanages or girls who could not attend primary and middle schools . 
7 . 
2.2 Full-scale economic development : the 1960s and 1970s 
The state-led economic development program during this period mobilized women into the industrial workforce . 
Women formed much of the workforce in the labor-intensive light industries , such as the textile , garment and leather sectors , and Women low wages enabled these industries to enjoy a comparative advantage for a long time . 
Women workers also played a leading role in the labor movement against company-controlled unions in the 1970s . 
Women were excellent workers in terms of skill and diligence . 
Women moved to the cities for jobs to support Women poor families in the villages , stayed in dormitories or poor private housing , and endured long working hours of more than 12 hours per day . 
It was estimated that 2 million women worked in these industries . 
The shift of employment patterns from primary industries to manufacturing increased the size of the female labor force . 
In 1963 , the number of women having jobs or seeking work was 2,835,000 and jobs labor force participation rate was 37.0 percent . 
The number nearly doubled to 5,349,000 and the participation rate rose to 43.3 percent by 1979 . 
Young women between the ages of 15 and 19 formed a major part of the labor force in the early stages of industrialization . 
In 1963 , 14 percent of this age group worked and this increased to 17 percent by the early 1970s . 
The portion of young female workers declined after 1975 because of improved access to education . 
The Korean government focused on light industries during the early stages of industrialization due to the comparative advantages offered by cheap labor , but this strategy was soon challenged by other emerging economies . 
As a result , the government decided to strengthen capital-intensive industries from the mid-1970s . 
These industries had less use for female workers . 
Woman accounted for 22 percent of the manufacturing workforce by the mid-1970s , with most women finding clerical , service and sales jobs instead . 
Although increased opportunities for secondary education were becoming available during this period , half of the women in the mid-1970s entered the job market with only an elementary school education , with most of the rest having attended secondary schools . 
Only a very small number of women had access to higher education . 
Although women did not participate actively in politics during this period , women were important actors in women local communities . 
women were involved in community development projects , family planning programs , and the Saemaul -LRB- new village -RRB- movement . 
However , the role of women was limited somewhat by the fact that the community development projects were mostly organized and operated on a semi - governmental basis that resorted to traditional stereotypes of gender roles . 
7 . 
2.3 Transition to a market economy : the 1980s to 1997 
Educational opportunities expanded with the decision in 1971 to end the entrance examination system for middle schools , followed by the same decision in 1974 for high schools . 
The ratio of female elementary graduates who entered middle schools rose from 70 percent in 1975 to 99 percent in 1985 . 
But female advancement into higher education did not keep pace with that of secondary education because of the cultural preference for families to give priority to sons , with only 36 percent of students in higher education being women in 1995 . 
Since the 1980s , the market economy began to displace the state-led industrialization model in Korea . 
In addition , the advances in information technology changed the methods and structure of production . 
The increasing role of services in the economy provided more job opportunities for women than in the industrial sector , which led to a rise in the female labor force participation rate . 
More educated women were entering the labor force as well as an increasing number of married middle-aged women . 
The government set up `` Working Women 's Centers '' to provide vocational training for married women who were re-entering the workforce . 
The centers were state-funded and operated by women 's groups , such as the YWCA , and provided short-term job training courses for office administration , dressmaking , cooking and patient care . 
Large companies also tried to hire more married women with university degrees in response to the labor shortage caused by the economic boom of the 1980s . 
The increase of married women in the labor market did not mean there was no interruption in careers due to marriage , births and childcare . 
The work participation pattern of women by age had an M-shape , with a steep decline in the late 20s as many women married and had children . 
Since the 2000s , the trend toward late marriage has meant this decline is now seen in the early 30s for women -LRB- Figure 6-22 -RRB- . 
During this period , women formed organizations that took a leading role in the campaigns for democracy and women 's rights . 
The labor movement for clerical women workers became active and won several cases to abolish gender discrimination in terms of recruitment and retirement benefits . 
One successful legal case was the ending of discriminatory personnel practices for female bank clerks in July 1991 . 
The first lawsuit case against sexual harassment in the workplace was finalized in 1993 after a seven-year struggle in the civil courts . 
The case attracted public attention to the fact that sexual harassment is not related to personal issues , but is a matter of working conditions , leading to sexual harassment prevention education at work . 
Women 's groups suggested various policies and laws to curb violence against women and other violations of Women 's groups human rights . 
This encouraged the government to adopt policies that promoted gender equality , such as the Equal Employment Opportunity Act . 
It was introduced in 1988 and marked a turning point in the employment of women by banning discrimination against women when it came to hiring , wages , training , job placement , retirement and dismissal . 
And for the first time , the central government created in 1988 an agency to oversee women 's affairs , although it was eliminated in 1998 as part of an effort to reduce the state bureaucracy . 
7 . 
2.4 Recovery from the economic crisis : 1997 to the present 
This period has seen an increase in education levels among women and in female social participation . 
The introduction of the Framework Act on Women 's Development in 1995 was the starting point for the institutionalization of women 's policies since the Framework Act on Women 's Development in 1995 established the government 's responsibilities to promote women 's rights and gender equality . 
The introduction of affirmative action quotas for female candidates in parliamentary and local elections and employment in government offices brought great changes . 
The Equal Employment Opportunity Act was expanded into the Act on Equal Employment and Support for Work-Family Reconciliation . 
Various policies were also introduced to support female entrepreneurs , help develop career opportunities for middle-aged women who were returning to the workforce , and improve gender equality in employment . 
All these efforts created very positive changes in promoting the participation of women in political and social areas , including leadership roles . 
Government controls on university enrollment quotas were abolished in 1995 , which improved women 's access to higher education . 
The number of possible careers for women was increased with the establishment of an engineering faculty at Ewha Womans University and with more student enrollments in science and engineering faculties at other women 's universities . 
Women also had a greater chance to enter professional institutions that had previously banned or limited female students , including the Air Force Academy , the Military Academy , the National Tax College , the Korean National Railroad College and the Korean National Police University . 
Since the mid-1990s , knowledge-based industries in the areas of financial services , health , education , public service and others , created lots of professional jobs . 
But the 1997 Asian financial crisis brought big changes in the labor market . 
Female employment fell by 7.3 percent in 1998 from the previous year , while the decline for men was 5.1 percent . 
Women were more affected by the crisis because many of the small firms that went bankrupt tended to employ female workers and women were first to be laid off in many cases . 
In a survey of 270,000 workers who lost their jobs , women formed a higher proportion than men in every sector and industry -LRB- Soon Kyung Cho , 1999 -RRB- . 
Especially in the financial and banking sectors , which were the most affected by the 1997 financial crisis , the rate of resignations by women in low positions was high and part-time employment among women increased dramatically . 
In cases involving two major financial services companies in 1998 where both members of married couples worked , the women were the first to be targeted for layoffs . 
In addition , 86 percent of `` voluntary '' resignations involved women -LRB- Young Ju Kim , 1998 -RRB- . 
Not only during the economic crisis in 1997 , but also during other economic downturns , including the credit card crisis in 2003 and the recent global financial crisis in 2008 , the number of female workers declined more sharply than the number of female workers male counterparts . 
Women 's economic participation has been growing steadily in the last 60 years , but women with higher education have a relatively low rate of labor participation . 
The employment rate of female university graduates is nearly the lowest among OECD countries , with a gap of nearly 20 percentage points below that of the OECD average . 
7 . 
3 Policy direction for the future 
Women will play an increasingly important role in maintaining Korea 's economic growth . 
Korea has an abundant but underutilized pool of highly educated women . 
The participation of women in the labor market increased steadily between the late 1940s and 1990s , but has stagnated since then . 
It is crucial to identify the obstacles that are preventing more women from entering the workforce . 
In comparison with other countries , the most noticeable characteristic of the female labor market in Korea is career interruption . 
Due to strong stereotype views of gender roles , many women stop many women careers for family reasons , including giving birth , childcare , supporting children 's education , and housework , despite the increased job opportunities for women . 
In this situation , it is essential to create better support systems for women to reconcile work and family life . 
It would only be effective if the system incorporates changes in the system design and thinking . 
For example , instead of establishing general policy objectives such as expanding and improving the quality of childcare services , it would be more practical to redesign childcare policies so childcare policies support the employment of women . 
Companies should be encouraged to provide more part-time job opportunities for women and adopt flexible working hour system while existing initiatives should be reviewed to make concrete measures for improvement . 
The policies to support the participation of women in society should put more focus on social attitudes , customs and culture . 
In order to protect women 's rights and realize equal employment , it is important to promote gender perspectives in all aspects of life . 
8 . 
Conclusion 
Over the past 60 years , Korea has come a long way and has achieved broad-based social development commensurate with tremendous economic growth . 
The access to education expanded rapidly , with most of the young now receiving higher education . 
The employment rate rose continuously , helped by rapid economic growth and the increasing participation of female workers in the labor market . 
The government has also extended the coverage of the welfare system to all segments of society . 
Health care services have progressed in terms of both quantity and quality , and now the availability of health care services is similar to that in developed countries . 
Nonetheless , Korea currently faces many challenges in the area of social policies . 
The centralized education system with Korea emphasis on mass education has been successful in producing qualified labor force for rapid industrialization , but has also been criticized for being inadequate in promoting diversity and creativity in a knowledge-based economy . 
Public distrust of the state education system is reflected in the large number of students receiving private tutoring . 
There is an urgent need to restructure the current system by giving more power to local communities and individual schools and by expanding the range of choices for students and parents . 
The Korean labor market has functioned quite efficiently in creating jobs and meeting industrial demand . 
But the dualism between the core and periphery of the labor market presents an important challenge . 
The government should promote functional and numerical flexibility at the core by relaxing employment protection , while improving income security on the periphery by extending social welfare and active labor market programs to non-standard workers . 
The rising share of regular employees among workers will help shrink the periphery , but The rising share of regular employees among workers can also increase the overall inflexibility of the Korean labor market unless strict legal employment protections are weakened to make The Korean labor market easier to dismiss individual workers . 
Efforts are also needed to encourage labor market participation by women and help women reconcile work and family life . 
The social welfare system also needs major improvements . 
The social welfare system effectiveness is constrained by The social welfare system failure to include the large number of non-standard workers , the complex and unorganized structure of the welfare programs , an inefficient delivery system , and an insufficient focus on the most needy . 
These problems need to be addressed properly to improve the effectiveness of the social welfare system . 
In addition , the adverse impact of the system on work incentives should be minimized , in particular by reforming the National Basic Livelihood Security Program . 
The long-term financial sustainability of the social insurance programs also should be enhanced with fundamental reforms of the public pension scheme and National Health Insurance . 
At the same time , the private sector should be given a greater role in providing social services , with the government retaining the private sector role in funding and monitoring these services . 
Of all social welfare programs , the health care programs achieved the greatest success , covering the entire population under the NHI and , to some degree , making health care accessible and affordable to all . 
In an effort to further improve the system , the government should focus on enhancing the quality of health care services , integrate the delivery system , expand NHI coverage for serious and costly illnesses while minimizing expenditure on other services , and shift the focus of health care policy to disease prevention and health promotion . 
Equally important is the deregulation of the health care industry to strengthen competitiveness . 
All of these are formidable challenges . 
Based on its past success , Korean social policy should ready itself for another big leap forward . 
